CHAPTER 1
NEW POST: ONE OR THE OTHER
OCTOBER 1, 6:55 AM
The first thing you're going to want to know about
me is: Am I a boy, or am I a girl?
I STOP TYPING AND STARE at the cursor, which flashes at
me incessantly, as if mocking my inability to write one
stupid post.
“Riley!” It's my mom, calling me from downstairs in her
singsongy voice. “If you still want to be early, you'd better
come down for breakfast!”
I glance at the clock. I'm not really running that late—but
I want to get the lay of the land while the campus is still
mostly empty. “I'll be down in a minute!” I say, then click
Delete, slam my laptop shut, and slide off my bed.
At least I can tell Doctor Ann I tried.
I stop in front of the mirror to examine myself. I don't
know if this look will help me blend in at my new school, but
it definitely exudes a sort of existential punk vibe, like, “I
care so much, I don't care,” that feels distinctly me. As a
last touch, I mash down my bangs so they hide as much of
my face as possible. It'll have to do.
Downstairs, my mother gives me a wide smile. “First
day!” she says.
I manage to smile in return, and then I grab a box of
cereal from the pantry and sit down at the table across from
my dad.
“Ready to conquer Park Hills High?” he says. Then he
looks up from his tablet, and his smile wilts as he notices my
outfit.
I'm wearing a pair of jeans and my dad's old Ramones Tshirt,
which I've modified to fit my smaller frame. Black Doc
Martens—synthetic ones, no cows were harmed in the
making of my shoes—round out the ensemble. I'm grateful
that I don't have to wear a uniform anymore—I remember
how suffocating it was to be confined to the same identity
day after day, regardless of how I felt inside.
But the truth is, it still doesn't matter how I feel—
because however I show up today, people will expect me to
look the same tomorrow. Including my parents.
So my only choice is to go neutral.
“Is that my Ramones shirt?” Dad says.
“Once upon a time,” I say.
He clears his throat. “Riley, are you sure that's how you
want to present yourself on your first day?”
I open my mouth, then close it without saying anything.
Dad gestures at me with his grapefruit spoon. “You only
get one chance at a first impression.”
I want to scream: Like I don't know that! But instead, I
say, “I guess I'm hedging my bets. I want to see how the
kids dress at public school. Don't want to overdo it and end
up looking stupid.” Dad seems to consider, then nods his
head approvingly. By appealing to his sense of strategy, I've
averted the Inquisition.
For now.
Ten minutes later, the three of us pile into Mom's
minivan. I've agreed to let both parents escort me on my
first day, but only on the condition that we not take the
black Lincoln. I don't want anyone to see Dad's government
license plates and connect Riley Cavanaugh with
Congressman Cavanaugh. Maybe I'm being paranoid, but
that kind of notoriety is the last thing I need on top of . . .
well, on top of everything else.
We turn out of our gated community and onto Imperial
Highway. The closer we get to the school, the more
butterflies flap around in my stomach; I don't know what to
expect. At Immaculate Heart, it was impossible for someone
like me to avoid being singled out; the school was just too
small and too conservative. Maybe the people here will be
more open-minded. Or, at the very least, maybe I'll be able
to blend in.
Finally, we reach the top of Lions Ridge, and Park Hills
High School comes into view. It's a massive, U-shaped,
concrete abomination, surrounded by wrought-iron gates
encrusted with ten years of accumulated green paint.
“Hey,” I say. “You can just pull over and drop me off
here.”
“It's a steep walk, honey,” Mom says. “We'll drop you at
the front.”
“Mom, we talked about the ‘honey' thing.”
“Right,” she says. “Sorry.”
“Please, you guys, I just want to walk in.”
“You mean you want to make an entrance,” Dad says, a
smile turning up one corner of his mouth.
I blink at him. He couldn't misunderstand me more if he
actively tried. But if believing that will keep him from
making a scene out of my arrival, I'll fake it.
“Yeah,” I say. “I guess I do.”
Mom glances at me in the rearview, her eyes narrowed,
and I get the feeling she sees through my lie. She starts to
say something, then seems to change her mind and just
presses her lips together instead. Dad pulls to the curb and
turns to face me.
“You're smart and resourceful, Riley,” he says. “Put
yourself out there, and you'll be an asset to this campus.”
But I don't want to be an asset; I want to be invisible.
As they pull away, Mom gives me an ironic princess
wave, and Dad makes devil horns with one hand. I roll my
eyes, wait impatiently for the van to turn the corner, and
then look around to get my bearings.
I'm about fifty yards from the school entrance, where a
few clusters of students are beginning to form. I let out a
long, slow breath and start toward the gates.
A green SUV pulls into the circular drive, and a blond girl
in a short skirt climbs out. As she approaches her friends,
she walks past a circle of guys passing around a basketball.
One of them wolf-whistles at her, and she gives him the
finger.
Then it's my turn to walk past them. My heart beats
faster as I get close; I keep my head down and try to blend
in with the concrete. To my relief, no one says anything to
me; I've dodged the first bullet.
I'm only a few yards away from the big green gates now.
All I have to do is make it past the group of girls, and then
I'll be on campus, where I can disappear into a crowd.
But as I draw closer, two of the girls look up and notice
me. I glance away, but I feel their eyes on me, scrutinizing,
categorizing. I've been through this before, and it shouldn't
get to me—but today, it does. My skin breaks out in goose
bumps, and I wrap my arms around myself and walk faster.
“Oh my God,” one of the girls says, and my head
involuntarily turns to look at her. She's got long brunette
hair and a small, perfect nose. “Holy shit, you guys.” She
lowers her voice to a stage whisper, but I can still hear what
she says:
“Is that a girl, or a guy?”
A fit of giggles erupts from the group around her. My face
goes hot. I walk faster, trying to escape the whispers.
“No,” another girl says. “That has to be a . . .”
“Yeah, but look what it's wearing.”
It. She called me it.
CHAPTER 2
THE FIRST DOOR I COME to is a restroom, and I burst in
and lock myself in a stall. For a moment, I just lean against
the cold metal door, staring at a patch of discolored grout
on the tile wall.
It.
I've been called worse—much worse—but somehow this
comment stings more than the rest. I haven't been here five
minutes, and the harassment has already started. I even
made an effort to dress as neutrally as I could stand—but it
doesn't matter. My differentness is impossible to conceal. I
feel a familiar heat behind my eyes and the beginning of a
quiver in my bottom lip, but I bite down on it. I can't give in
this easily. I can't let one bad moment ruin my chance at a
fresh start. I close my eyes and take three long, deep
breaths. Slowly, my heartbeat returns to normal.
I pull out my class schedule and check the map on the
back: my first class—AP English/Room 207—is on the other
end of the campus. Class starts in fifteen minutes; if I want
to avoid the rush, I'd better go now.
The quad at Park Hills High is approximately nine
hundred miles from end to end and feels just like “the yard”
in some old prison movie. I entertain a brief escape fantasy
in which I'm shanked from behind and bleed out before the
first bell rings so I don't have to face the rest of the day. No
such luck—but I make it across without incident, push open
the door to the language arts wing, and start down the
hallway. I stop outside room 207 and peer in through the
window, one of those tall, narrow ones with chicken wire
between the panes. I can't see anyone inside, so I open the
door and enter.
The empty desks are arranged in a grid, and I take a
moment to consider my options. The front rows are no good,
because I'd be on display for everyone as they come in—
and, after the morning I've had, I'd rather avoid the scrutiny.
But the last few rows are out, too, because teachers love to
call on kids who sit in the back.
I choose a desk in the center of the room, drop my bag
next to it, and slide into the chair. It's new; there's hardly
any graffiti at all, only the word “penis” etched in one
corner. Briefly, I consider inscribing “vagina” on the opposite
side, just to balance it out.
Then the door bangs open and a huge guy lumbers into
the room. He's at least six feet tall, probably over three
hundred pounds, and he's wearing a black T-shirt depicting
Darth Vader clutching an ice-cream cone. His nest of messy
black hair is clamped under a pair of red headphones, and
he appears to be playing an air guitar solo as he walks down
the aisle, eyes closed, face contorting in an apoplexy of
rage or ecstasy—it's hard to tell which. He goes up on
tiptoe, pinwheels one arm to strike a triumphant chord on
his imaginary ax, then falls to his knees and throws his
hands up like he's taking in the applause of a stadium
crowd.
After a long, gasping moment, he gets to his feet, slides
into a desk right across the aisle from mine, and begins
rummaging through his dilapidated backpack. I clear my
throat to get his attention, but he doesn't respond; he
probably can't hear me with those headphones on.
Finally, he turns his head to crack his neck. He opens his
eyes, sees me—and flinches in surprise, knocking his
backpack off the desk. His belongings spill into the aisle
between us: books, papers, a Yoda pencil case, and an
avalanche of small pink candies.
We stare at each other in wide-eyed silence for a long
moment. And then the guy speaks, his voice about forty
decibels louder than necessary.
“Jesus Christ on a cupcake! You scared the crap out of
me!”
I gesture for him to take off his headphones.
“Oh yeah,” he says too loudly. When he pulls them off his
head, his hair springs up, giving him an electrocuted look.
He stands and retrieves his backpack, while I slide out of my
chair to help collect his belongings.
The candies turn out to be strawberry Starbursts, dozens
of them. When I've picked up the last one, I drop the pile
onto his desk and meet his gaze. His eyes are large and
dark, and he stares at me for a long time, not saying
anything. Part of me wants to turn away, to pull out a book
and bury my face in it—but there's something about his
presence, a gentle goofiness, that makes me take a chance.
Tentatively, I break the silence. “I'm Riley.”
He blinks. “Solo.”
I raise my eyebrows.
“That's what people call me,” he says. “Short for Jason
Solomona.”
Solo snatches one of the Starbursts from his desk,
unwraps it deftly, and crams it into his mouth. After a few
hearty chews, he says thickly, “Want one?” I don't, but I feel
like telling him no would be tantamount to refusing a peace
offering from a foreign diplomat.
“Yeah, thanks,” I say, and take one. It's sweet, and
immediately adheres itself to one of my back molars like
quick-dry cement. Solo stares at me for a moment, his
eyebrows drawn together. He starts to speak, but hesitates.
My heart sinks; here we go. Come on. Let's get it out of
the way.
Finally, he seems to make a decision, and says, “You're
new.”
“Yeah,” I say, relieved.
“Where are you from? Wait,” he interrupts himself, “don't
tell me.” He glances at my shirt, then leans into the aisle to
look at something on the ground. My shoes? He straightens.
“Midwest,” he says.
Half amused and half confused, I tilt my head to one
side. “Why the Midwest?”
He points to my Doc Martens. “Boots, not very practical
for Southern California.”
I start to retort, but he's already moved on.
“Authentic vintage Ramones shirt, not something you can
just pick up at Hot Topic.” He inclines his head as if waiting
for confirmation.
My heart gives a pleasant twinge; the guy doesn't seem
put off by my appearance at all; in fact, he seems genuinely
interested. “Go on,” I say.
“Unusual haircut. Rebellious air about you.”
“Why does that make you think I'm from the Midwest?”
Solo shrugs. “Where else could you develop such
contempt for traditional American values?”
That makes me smile. He smiles back.
“Now,” he continues, putting a finger to his lips in a
cartoonish imitation of a TV detective, “your vampiric Irish
pallor suggests north of Indianapolis.” He sits back in his
chair and folds his enormous hands. “Chicago. Am I right?”
“Not quite,” I say.
“Detroit!” he replies.
“Nope.”
“Madison?”
I shake my head.
He throws up his hands. “I give up. Where?”
“Park Hills. About a mile from here.”
He sags back into his seat, deflating like an enormous car
dealership balloon that's been punctured by a sharp rock.
“Damn,” he says. “I thought I had you pegged.”
I shrug. “Sorry to disappoint.”
He laughs. “Not disappointed, just surprised. You look . .
.”
He pauses midsentence, and my heart sinks again. All
the words I'm afraid he might say rush in to fill the gap in
his speech: Weird. Freakish.
Wrong.
But then he does speak, and he doesn't say any of those
things. He says, “You look . . . too exotic for Park Hills.”
Something inside me seems to swell and grow warmer,
and I'm surprised when a weird laugh escapes me—
something between a bark and a giggle. At the sound of it,
Solo laughs, too. Caught up in the moment, I sort of flip my
bangs back and say in a low voice, “Exotic, am I?”
Solo's smile falters, and the silence that ensues is so
awkward that I want to climb under my desk and die. Solo
flushes a deep brown, and I drop my gaze to my lap.
Stupid, stupid, stupid. I'm so desperate to make a friend
that the second I get comfortable with someone, what do I
do? I make some weird, embarrassing joke, and he
interprets it as flirting. Ugh! It was the wrong thing, the
wrong energy to send out in that moment. And despite my
feeling neutral today, this guy clearly sees me as a guy; I
can tell by his uncomfortable reaction to my unintended
flirting. Now, there's a palpable weirdness between us, and I
desperately wish I could take back that stupid hair flip and
just keep my mouth shut.
Much to my relief, Solo starts speaking again as though
nothing happened. “If you're from Park Hills, why am I
seeing you for the first time a month into junior year?”
Eager not to make an ass of myself again, I execute the
most nonchalant shrug in the history of shrugging. “I
transferred from Immaculate Heart,” I say. As soon as the
words are out of my mouth, I wish I hadn't said them. If he
asks why, what am I going to say? That I'm my father's
political pawn? Or that I was trying to escape from a place
where I was harassed and bullied on a daily basis? Charming
small talk for a first conversation.
But Solo doesn't ask—he just glances down at my boots,
then up at my hair, and says, “Catholic school. Of course.
That would give anyone contempt for traditional American
values.”
I smile. “You were right about the Irish part, though.”
That seems to cheer him up.
The classroom door opens and two girls enter. I recognize
the shorter one: she's the brunette with the perfect nose
who speculated about my gender when I walked on campus.
The one who called me “it.” Hastily, I lean over to pretend
I'm pulling another book out of my bag, surfacing only after
the girl and her friend have taken their seats. As the
classroom fills up, Solo sets about putting the Starbursts
back into his backpack and stowing his headphones, and I
bury my head in my AP English textbook.
I actually enjoy my first class. Miss Crane has a round,
pleasant face, and turns out to be a total book geek; she
makes multiple Harry Potter references and takes note of
who gets them. She catches me snorting at one in which
she speculates how an appearance by Ginny Weasley might
have altered the plot of Sense and Sensibility. When the bell
rings, I take my time packing up; I'm not eager to leave Solo
or Miss Crane's Sanctuary for Geeks. I'm relieved when Solo
tells me he has AP Government second period—because I
do, too—and we head to class together. Or, more
accurately, I follow him through the halls, walking in his
considerable wake.
After the it incident this morning, I've braced myself to
be gawked at, even openly mocked in the halls—but mostly,
the other students walk right past me like I'm anyone else. I
do draw a few looks, though; a blond girl in a pretty
lavender dress gives me a friendly smile as we pass each
other. I smile back.
Then, just as I'm starting to believe I might actually fit in
here, a short guy in a blue baseball cap looks me up and
down. At first I think he's checking me out—but when we
make eye contact, he shakes his head, frowning like he's
disgusted. I pick up my pace as I walk past him and follow
Solo up the stairs to our next class.
Mr. Brennan, the Government teacher, has an enormous
Chuck Norris mustache and assigns desks by alphabetical
order—so I'm forced to take my place in the middle of the
second row, while Solo ends up one row over. When Brennan
starts his lecture, I'm not listening; I'm replaying the
whispers from this morning, and the disgusted look from the
guy in the hallway.
At some point, I look up to find Mr. Brennan standing
directly in front of my row.
“Anybody want to hazard a guess?” Brennan says,
referring to a question I apparently didn't hear. “This is the
US House of Representatives, people. The YOU-nited States.
The country in which most of you were born.” I look down at
my desk, praying he doesn't call on me.
“Riley Cavanaugh,” he says.
I open my mouth, intending to reply, but nothing comes
out. After a moment, the guy in front of me—slight-framed,
with dark hair to his shoulders and a black peacoat I kind of
want to steal—speaks up in a voice that sounds like it hasn't
changed yet: “Fifty?”
Brennan turns his gaze on him. “Incorrect. You might be
thinking of the Senate, which comprises two representatives
from each of the fifty states, for a total of one hundred.”
The guy shrugs.
“Ah. Well, close, but no cigar. But, in any case, DeLucca, I
didn't call on you.” He turns to face me again. “Cavanaugh?
Care to take your shot?”
The entire class is looking at me now, and the sides of
my face instantly get hot. When I blush—which I do with
pathological frequency—it's not like a subtle change in skin
tone; it's more like a new paint job. Warning thoughts flash
through my head: Play dumb! Give the wrong answer! But
habit wins over caution, and I reply.
“Four hundred thirty-five,” I say. My face basically bursts
into flame, and I look down at my desk.
“Correct,” Mr. Brennan replies, turning to pace the center
aisle. “It appears that only two of us in this room stand
between our fragile republic and the clandestine oligarchy.
Let's see if we can't increase our numbers this year, shall
we?” With that, he resumes his lecture, and I zone out for
the rest of the period.
When the bell rings, everyone explodes out of their desks
and stampedes toward the door; I get the impression that
Mr. Brennan is not in the running for Park Hills High School's
Most Popular Teacher. I follow Solo into the hall. It's less
crowded now, and I can actually walk next to him without
being shunted aside.
“What's next for you?” I ask.
“Español, then Algebra I.”
“You're still taking Algebra I?”
“I hate sequels,” he says.
I laugh. “Which period do you have lunch?”
Solo is about to answer when a tall guy slams into me,
knocking me sideways. He's broad-shouldered, with a mop
of sun-bleached hair, and his left arm is encased in a yellow
fiberglass cast. In his good hand, he's clutching an iPad. As
he blows past, he turns his head and looks at me. I catch
that familiar flicker of uncertainty as he tries to figure me
out. He gives up more quickly than most, and just says,
“Watch where you're walking, bitch.” He shoots Solo a
reproachful glance, then continues down the hall. A younger
kid chases after him, shouting, “Give it back, man!”
Solo steadies me with one big hand. “You okay?”
“Yeah,” I say, regaining my balance. “Thanks. Who was
that?”
“Jim Vickers,” Solo says, frowning as the chase proceeds
around the corner. “Prank enthusiast-slash-running back.
But he's out for the season.”
“Running back? As in football?”
Solo shakes his head. “Chess.”
I snort. “Is he always such an asshole?”
But Solo doesn't seem to hear me as we round the corner
and push through the double doors that lead out to the
quad. It's a bright day, already approaching the mideighties.
The sun feels good, and I stand up a little taller.
“You know where you're going next?” Solo says.
I dig into my bag and pull out my schedule. “Precalc,
then French, then lunch.”
“Well,” Solo says, “then we part ways.” He puts his palms
together and makes a mock bow. “May you survive your first
day.” I feel slightly nauseated at the thought of being on my
own again; even though it's only been two hours, I was
getting used to having a massive bodyguard. I turn and
mirror his mock bow.
“May you endure the horrors of Algebra,” I reply.
Solo smiles.
“So, see you at lunch?”
At that, Solo's eyes drift to something in the distance
behind me.
“Yeah,” he says. “Maybe.”
CHAPTER 3
IT TAKES ME FOUR TRIES to get the combination right
when I stop by my locker before third period because I can't
shake the feeling that I'm being watched. I glance to my left
and catch the brunette girl with the perfect nose staring at
me from her own locker about ten rows away. I expect a
glare—but her look shows more curiosity than contempt, as
though she's observing some fascinating animal at the zoo.
When our eyes meet, her expression doesn't change—and
then, after a moment, she walks away. Feeling unsettled, I
unload the books I don't need and set off for Precalc.
Mr. Hibbard is ancient and mind-numbingly dull. The only
redeeming quality of his class is that he's so old-school he's
brought in actual blackboards. The smell and the clicking of
chalk on board are comforting, but I still hold out little hope
of getting an A.
In French, I sit behind a blond girl named Casey Reese
who notices the stitching on my Ramones shirt and asks
where I got it. Feeling slightly suspicious of her motives, I
tell her I bought it online and then pretend to look for
something in my bag.
At first, I like Madame Bordelon—she's French-Canadian,
and her accent sounds exotic and sophisticated. But halfway
through the period, she realizes I'm the only student who
hasn't chosen a French alias—and then she asks me to pick
one in front of the whole class. When I respond with stunned
silence, she quickly refers me to a list in the textbook, and
then moves on with her lesson.
I avoid further interaction by pretending to study this
ridiculous list, which contains a blue column for boys' names
and a pink column for girls'. I glance up only to check the
clock; on one hand, I can't wait to get out of this room. On
the other, I'm dreading the arrival of lunch.
Park Hills High is big; there must be four thousand
students here. The thought of being seen by even a quarter
of those people at once in a single, massive room makes my
heart contract. A low buzzing starts up in the back of my
head, as if wasps have begun building a nest inside my
skull. It's the beginning of an anxiety attack—and I can't
have one now. Not on my first day.
I close my eyes and take three slow, deep Doctor Ann
breaths. My heart palpitates one more time, then settles
back into its normal rhythm. I've delayed the attack for now,
and maybe I can fight it off indefinitely—or, at the very
least, until I've made it through lunch.
At Immaculate Heart, I avoided the cafeteria at all costs.
During the first week of my sophomore year, Ben Haskell
slapped my tray when no teachers were looking, splattering
my uniform with tomato soup and showering me in Diet
Mountain Dew. Two days later, Patricia Shea tripped me as I
was walking past her table. I landed on my wrist, and it
swelled to the size of a softball. After that, I never went back
to the cafeteria again. I would have lunch in Miss Kerns's
English classroom—but then she moved to Arizona, and I
had to eat on the stoop behind the art supply room.
When the bell rings at the end of French, I'm the last one
out of the classroom. The quad is already crawling with
students, all of them swarming toward the outdoor eating
area like ants descending on the remains of a discarded
Popsicle. Maybe I don't have to do this; maybe Miss Crane
will let me eat in her room. I turn and start in that direction
—and then I stop. I told myself it was going to be different
here. I told myself I was going to be different. That I was
going to blend in, to find my place. And I don't want that
place to be hiding in a teacher's room every day at lunch.
Not again.
I turn and start across the quad, not stopping until I reach
the top of the stairs that lead down to the lunch area. From
here, I can see everything. The “cafeteria” at Park Hills High
is actually an enormous covered patio, half the size of a
Costco and twice as ugly. The gray concrete wall is
punctuated by three takeout windows and a giant graffitistyle
mural reading “Roar, Lions!” In the open area, students
sit crammed shoulder to shoulder at green fiberglass picnic
tables arranged in seven long rows with a wide aisle down
the center.
I stand at the top of the stairs, observing the
arrangement of all the cliques, trying to find a safe place to
sit. The table in the back-left corner has been claimed by a
congregation of guys, and a few girls, with Seven Seize and
Bleeding Out Slow T-shirts, prominent piercings, and dyed
hair. If I don't manage to spot Solo in the crowd, this table
might be my best option. To their right, there's a group of
students mostly dressed in thrift-shop chic. No way I'd blend
in with them. The other two corners are occupied by,
respectively, band people, as distinguished by their bulky
instrument cases, and a group of what looks like senior AP
students studying while they inhale their pizza pockets and
pudding cups.
The center of the room is dominated by a swath of green
and gold, students in various team shirts and jerseys: the
student government people, the cheerleaders, and
members of the football team. To get to the food line, I'm
going to have to walk down that center aisle, a gauntlet of
Park Hills High's social elite. Before I make my approach, I
scan the room one more time, trying to locate Solo. He's
twice the size of the average student, so I figure he won't be
hard to spot—but I don't see him anywhere. It's okay; I've
already made my plan B. I'll grab some food and head
straight for the pierced and dyed contingent, who I've
affectionately nicknamed “the Hardcores.” There are quite a
few open spots at their table, and my Ramones-T-shirt-and-
Doc-Martens ensemble might grant me some cred.
But first, the Gauntlet.
Halfway down the stairs, I notice how tightly I'm grasping
the rail. I relax my grip and try to control my breathing—but
when I make it to the bottom, I can't help walking faster.
The comments start halfway down the aisle.
“Nice hair, bro.”
“Dude, that's a chick.”
“Oh shit, sorry, bro!” A burst of laughter.
I can't tell who's saying what, because I'm not looking—
but it doesn't matter. If this is as bad as it gets, I can handle
it. I just lock my eyes on the menu board above the café line
and keep moving. To either side of me, whispers persist, but
after a few moments, it appears that I've survived the worst
of it. And then:
“Dude. Is that the new tranny?”
It's like someone pours a bucket of ice water directly into
my stomach, freezing my guts. My head jerks in the
direction of the voice.
I immediately recognize the blond guy with his arm in a
cast, the one who practically bowled me over in the hallway:
Jim Vickers. He regards me with sharp contempt, and I'm
unsurprised to see that the brunette hanging all over him is
the same one who called me “it.” Seated on either side of
the couple are a thick-necked, stringy-haired guy with the
name “Cole” printed across the back of his jersey and
another, smaller guy with red hair and wire-rim glasses.
Finally, I locate Solo. He's sitting across from Vickers,
staring down at his tray in silence. I don't know how I
missed his big form, stuffed in between two guys in football
jerseys. And then I notice that his Darth Vader T-shirt is
gone—Solo is wearing a jersey, too. I stop in the aisle.
Solo's on the football team?
At first I reject the idea—but I quickly reconsider. He's
certainly built like a football player. And back in the hallway,
he not only knew Vickers's name, but his position on the
team. I should have realized it then.
As if he can hear my thoughts, Solo looks up and makes
eye contact with me. He shakes his head once, then looks
back down at his tray like he's trying to find a hair in his
mashed potatoes. The ice water feeling spreads to my
chest, and I turn and start walking again, as fast as I can.
Somebody shouts, but I can't make out the words over the
sound of blood pumping through my ears.
I walk past the lunch line and turn left. Just beyond the
Hardcores' table, I see an outdoor hallway that leads away
from the cafeteria and bends left behind the auditorium. I
head for it; only a few more yards to go. Tears build up
behind my eyes, and this time I'm powerless to stop them
leaking down my cheeks.
As I'm passing the Hardcores, I notice a guy in a black
peacoat sitting at the table—the one who sits in front of me
in Government. He's pale, with a long, narrow nose and a
ring in his bottom lip, and he's locked in heated
conversation with another boy. But, as I walk by, he cocks
his head and gazes at me with intense blue eyes. He turns
to watch as I pass, but if he says something to me, I can't
hear it; I've already lowered my head and started to run.
CHAPTER 4
I TAKE THE BUS HOME, riding with my face pressed
against the window and my eyes closed so I don't have to
see anyone looking at me.
I'm grateful to find the house empty; Dad is speaking at
the groundbreaking ceremony for a new elementary school
in Acacia Heights, and Mom is taking the day off from
teaching to be with him. I suspect my mom hates being in
the public eye as much as I do, because on days when she
makes appearances with Dad, she gets this hollow look on
her face and compulsively chews cherry-flavored antacids. I
don't understand how she maintains her sense of humor
under all the pressure and attention that comes with being a
congressman's wife; I get only a fraction of the torrent she
has to endure, and I can barely cope with it.
I guess that's why, since my little meltdown over the
summer, they haven't asked me to attend any events. But
after my six-week stint of “recovery” at Pineview—which
sounds like a quaint hotel in the mountains, but is, in fact, a
psych hospital about an hour away—my weekly follow-ups
with Doctor Ann, and my carefully administered cocktail of
antidepressant and antianxiety meds, I'm supposed to be
better now. I'm supposed to be able to function. So I know
it's only a matter of time before they ask again.
Dad got home from Washington late last night after being
in session for a month, and Mom has a special family dinner
planned for tonight, just the three of us. I don't even want to
think about the first-day-of-school cross-examination I'll be
facing in just a few hours.
Closing the door to my room behind me, I cross to my
record player—a vintage Marantz turntable my dad got me
last Christmas—and pull out an appropriately angst-riddled
Police album from 1978. I revel in the hiss and crackle as
the needle rides the groove into the song I've chosen, “So
Lonely.” I lie back on my bed and stare up at the ceiling,
letting the thumping, jangling rhythm wash over me. The
lyrics, at once desperate and determined, bounce around
inside my head, and I'm overcome with a sudden pang of
doubt: Am I alone? I try to think of who I might call if I
wanted to go out and do something—like, I don't know,
browse records at Stray Cat, maybe—but I can't come up
with a single name. For a moment this morning, I let myself
hope that Solo might fill that role—but his behavior at lunch
ruled out that possibility.
The doubt seems to congeal in my throat, sticking there
like a half-swallowed pill, and I try to think of one person I
can call my friend. The only one I come up with is my old
wardmate from Pineview, but somehow, remembering
Murph brings me no comfort. I think back to last year. Who
would I have called then?
There was Derek Yu, my one and only real friend from
Immaculate Heart. Before he moved away, he would eat
lunch with me behind the art supply room. Sometimes we'd
sneak cigarettes. A couple of times, when his dad wasn't
home, I went over to their McMansion in Acacia Heights and
we went swimming in their Olympic-sized pool. Derek was a
serious swimmer, the only sophomore on the varsity water
polo team, but he was never cruel to me like his teammates
were.
He had these amazing lat muscles; they were like wings.
I remember the way the water would bead up and roll off his
skin when he got out of the pool. It was beautiful.
Sometime during the summer, Derek stopped asking me
to come over. His replies to my texts became colder, more
infrequent. I felt him detaching, but I didn't know why. Then,
during the last week of July, he failed to reply to six texts in
a row, and I threw my phone at the kitchen tile as hard as I
could. How could he drop me like that? What gave him the
right to just cut me off with no explanation? I didn't know
how, but I knew I'd driven him away.
I pull my phone out of my pocket now and run my thumb
over the screen, feeling the nicks and indentations in the
spider-webbed glass. Remembering that moment stirs
something inside—anger, at first, and then a deep, hollow
sadness that ripples through me in its own spiderweb
pattern.
A few days after the phone-throwing incident, I went to
Pineview, and I figured I'd never hear from Derek again. But
then, to my surprise, he showed up during my third week.
He had this look on his face when he walked into the
visitors' lounge, like he was afraid he might catch whatever I
had. After a few minutes of uncomfortable small talk, Derek
told me his dad's company was relocating them to India,
and that he was leaving the next day.
I wished there had been a pool we could swim in—but,
you know, mental patients and deep bodies of water, not so
much. That was the last time we talked.
I bring up a picture of Derek. Looking at his face on the
cracked screen rekindles my old anger; he shouldn't have
dropped me like that. I shouldn't have let those girls get to
me this morning. And Solo should have stood up for me at
lunch.
The thoughts ricochet frantically off the edges of my
mind. The buzz of anxiety grows louder now, making my
head hum like an electrified fence, threatening to break out
and return in full force.
I close my eyes and focus on the big three—the coping
mechanisms Doctor Ann says I'm supposed to employ when
I start to feel out of control. One: breathe. This part I seem
to have mastered. I take a long, deep breath and let it out
slowly. It helps, a little. Two: practice acceptance. This
seems impossible after the day I've had. Who am I
supposed to accept—the girl who called me “it”? Jim
Vickers, who referred to me as a “tranny”? Or Solo, who sat
by and watched it happen? No. I don't think I can accept any
of them just now.
That leaves number three, the one I've been resisting
since Doctor Ann insisted I start a journal blog, way back
when I was still at Pineview: share. She told me that, in the
old days, she made her patients keep journals; but for me,
she prescribed an anonymous blog so I could interact with
“people like me” in a “risk-free” way.
So, when I got out of Pineview in the middle of
September, I started a Bloglr account under the username
“Alix,” which I picked at random from a baby name website,
altering the spelling to make it more ambiguous. Over the
past month, I've read and “liked” and reblogged dozens of
posts by “people like me” all over the country. But I have
yet to attract any followers, and the closest I've come to
posting a single word of my own was this morning's aborted
attempt.
But lying here, listening to the frenetic, unapologetic
wailing emanating from my speakers, I figure desperate
times call for desperate measures.
Miss Kerns always told me she liked my compositions;
she said it was a gift to be able to work things out with
words the way I did. So maybe I can work this out. It's not
like anyone is going to read it.
I sit up, pull my laptop toward me, and open the Bloglr
log-in screen. The green frog logo blinks at me as I enter my
password, and then I open a new post and begin to type.
NEW POST: BOTH AND NEITHER
OCTOBER 1, 4:45 PM
My name is Alix. And the first thing you're going to
want to know about me is: Am I a boy, or am I a girl?
Don't worry. I'm used to it; it's the first thing
everyone wants to know—even when I'm standing
right in front of them. And, even if they don't come
right out and ask, I can tell they're thinking it, because
they narrow their eyes or tilt their heads slightly to
one side. At best, it's invasive curiosity; at worst, open
condemnation. Either way, they want an answer: Girl.
Or. Boy.
I look up from the keyboard and read what I've typed out
so far. It sounds sort of defensive, almost like I'm pissed off
at my imaginary reader—but at the same time, it feels good
to get it out.
Anyway, it's not that simple. The world isn't binary.
Everything isn't black or white, yes or no. Sometimes
it's not a switch, it's a dial. And it's not even a dial you
can get your hands on; it turns without your
permission or approval.
“Okay,” people say, “but you were born one way or
the other. Like, biologically. Anatomically.”
As if they have a right to know! As if, since I've so
rudely failed to make it obvious, I ought to wear a
sign.
Well, it's none of their damn business.
You think I'm unaware that my gender isn't
immediately apparent to you? You think I didn't
choose these clothes and this haircut specifically to
avoid being stuffed into one pigeonhole or another?
I'm gender fluid. Not stupid.
/rant
Okay. I'm sorry. I don't actually want to antagonize
you, imaginary reader. It's just hard to explain—but I'll
try.
Ugh. How do I describe this without sounding like a
Wikipedia entry? I've read dozens of posts on Bloglr and
sites like QueerAlliance, but none of them get it quite right—
at least, not right for me.
I walk over to the turntable and put on a new record,
something a little rawer, and then sit back down at the
keyboard.
NOW PLAYING: “Where Is My Mind?” by the
Pixies
The truth is, some days I wake up feeling more
“boy” and some days I wake up feeling more “girl.”
And some days, I wake up feeling somewhere in
between. It's like I have a compass in my chest, but
instead of north and south, the needle moves
between masculine and feminine. I know it's not like
that for all gender fluid people—but that's the best
way I can describe how it is for me.
But no matter where my internal compass points,
my body remains the same. And some days—maybe
half the time—I feel alien inside it. Like the curves and
angles are in all the wrong places. Like I was born with
the wrong parts. It's a heavy, suffocating feeling—my
doctor calls it dysphoria—and it makes concentrating
in class (not to mention surviving in the halls) nearly
impossible.
On days when it's really bad, dressing in a way that
fits how I feel inside—a way that matches the
direction my masculine/feminine compass is pointing
—seems like the only thing that might relieve the
dysphoria. But I can't always present myself how I
want to. If I show up feminine on day one, people will
assume I'm always a girl. Then, if I show up the next
day dressed like a guy, they'll react: taunts, ridicule,
even violence. I've seen it happen. Because I live in
the most gender binary place in the known universe:
Park Hills, California.
And let's not forget my parents. If I were to start
ping-ponging all over the gendersphere, my dad's
blood pressure would skyrocket, and my mother would
chew off her fingers—because I haven't told them yet.
I'm just not ready.
So I have to settle for looking “neutral.” My safe
zone is in the middle of the masculine-feminine
continuum, somewhere between a tomboy and a
feminine-looking guy; which means I always feel
slightly fake, like I'm in costume. I can't remember the
last time I felt comfortable in my own skin.
And, okay, I get it; it's confusing. I understand why
people wonder, and why they give me weird looks and
ask me invasive questions. But the thing is, they do a
whole lot more than just wonder and ask questions.
People can be cruel.
People can be very cruel.
So, imaginary reader, while I'm certain that you're
a unique unicorn, you are not the first person to
wonder what's between my legs. And maybe this blog
can be a place where I don't have to address that
particular issue. A place where my identity is not
constrained by my anatomy, or by the gender binary
confines of my concrete-and-stucco suburban prison.
A place where I'm free to be what I am.
Whatever that is.
#firstpost #genderfluid #GenderFluidProblems
I sit there for a minute with my finger hovering over the
trackpad. My mouth is suddenly dry. Sure, I've disguised my
identity by making up a fake username and choosing a
vintage photo of David Bowie as my avatar, but suddenly, it
feels like clicking Post is the equivalent of outing myself to
school, Mom, Dad, and the entire US House of
Representatives. I scroll up, delete “Park Hills, California,”
and replace it with “Stucco Town, USA.”
I click Post.
Then I stare at the wall for a long moment, feeling
something between excitement and terror. I don't know
whether to fall onto my bed and bury my face in my pillow
or jump around the room, squealing like a guinea pig on
meth. On the one hand, it feels good to have said it “out
loud.” On the other hand, I feel exposed. Like I've just
broadcast my darkest secret over the school PA system. It's
true, no one reads my blog. But they could. It's out there
now.
I exhale a long breath and reach for the keyboard to log
out, when I notice that there's a little blinking icon in the
upper right-hand corner of the screen. The text hovering
next to it reads:
yell0wbedwetter is now following you
I feel a smile of satisfaction spread across my face—and
that's when I notice that the buzzing feeling has receded
way into the background. It's almost gone.
Son of a bitch; blogging is therapeutic.
I log out and close my laptop. I'm reaching for my French
textbook when my mom suddenly calls up from downstairs.
“Riley!”
I flinch in surprise and drop my book. I didn't even know
she was home.
“Are you going to hide up there all night, or would you
like to come down and have dinner with your family?”
I glance at my phone: it's past seven o'clock. I was so
involved in writing that blog post that I didn't even hear the
garage door. So much for homework. I call down to her, “I'll
be right there.” Then I flip off the light and head downstairs.
The table is ridiculously packed with dishes—and, upon
seeing my incredulous expression, Mom says, “Don't judge
me, it's a special occasion.” No kidding, she gestures to the
food on the table like the hostess from one of those blender
infomercials, giving me a goofy smile. I sit down, and she
sets a gargantuan plate of pasta in front of me.
“Vegan cashew-cream ravioli!” she says, her voice
pitched high with enthusiasm.
I take a bite, and my eyes roll back in their sockets. “Oh
my God, Mom, this is so good!” I say it with my mouth full,
and it's true. My father tears into his bloody steak and
grunts appreciatively. Mom, having received unanimous
approval, takes her place at the table.
I sense an electric charge in the air, like the way it feels
before a thunderstorm—an area of low pressure. Eager to
forestall first-day-of-school questions, I turn to my dad and
execute evasive maneuvers.
“So,” I say, “how did the session wrap up?”
My mother shoots me a disapproving frown—she's seen
through my tactic—but it works on my dad, who promptly
sets down his fork and clears his throat.
“It was infuriating,” he says. “The committee seems
intent on stripping my bill of any real punch before it goes to
the House. Or, they're stalling because they think it's a
reelection tactic.”
“That must be so frustrating,” Mom says. She's doing her
best to sound involved without stirring the pot.
“I just hope they pull their heads out long enough to
prevent the collapse of public education,” Dad says,
gesturing emphatically with his fork. “I doubt anyone in
their families has attended a public school for four
generations.”
I bite back a comment about how I hadn't, either—right
up until five weeks before the election. Opponents of Dad's
bill made a huge deal about my transfer, calling it “political
maneuvering.” It's not a fair judgment, though. Not that I
haven't been used as a pawn in Dad's campaign before—
photo ops with his sullen teen make him seem more “real”
to the voters—but in this case, I was as eager to leave
Immaculate Heart as Dad's consultants were to get me
enrolled at a public school. I wanted out because of the way
the other students were treating me—so I agreed to do it, on
the condition that they waive my PE requirement. So, as my
dad would say, it was a win-win.
Except it's turning out to be no different than Immaculate
Heart. I guess it was naive to think that kids at Park Hills
would somehow be more open-minded just because it's a
public school.
“But enough shop talk,” Dad continues, turning to me.
“How was your first day?”
And, the questions begin. As practiced, I execute my
casual shrug and say, “Fairly consistent with the impending
collapse of public education.”
Dad smiles. “I see they haven't managed to tame the
Cavanaugh sass.”
I shake my head. “Not yet.”
He picks up his fork and knife again. “Make any new
friends?”
I glance up at him, watching the perfectly congressional
patches of gray hair on his temples twitch as he chews—and
I'm struck by a sudden urge to stand up and start spilling
my guts. To tell them everything: my morning bout of
dysphoria. Being called it the moment I set foot on campus.
The lunchroom Gauntlet, Solo's betrayal, the boy with the
lip ring and the bright-blue eyes.
But I won't. It would be what my mom calls “opening a
can of worms.” Inviting a conversation I'm not ready to
have. Because after what happened today, I don't know
what I would do if my parents rejected me, too. So I just
shrug, look down at my plate, and poke at the nowcongealing
cashew cream with my fork.
“Well,” Dad says. “Taking your time isn't a bad strategy. I
did the same thing when I got to Congress.”
I don't reply, and the quiet stretches out for a long
moment. Finally, Mom can't stand it anymore.
“So,” she says, turning to my father, “has Shelly finalized
the seating chart for Thursday?” The question sounds
rehearsed; something's up.
“What's Thursday?” I ask.
Dad clears his throat. “It's one of our last big dinners at
the Grand Lido.”
My heart twinges. They're going to ask me to go. I know
they are.
I hate fund-raisers. Between the noise and the crowd and
the clothes I have to wear, I feel like an animal on display at
the zoo. And the last time they asked me to attend one of
these dinners, I couldn't handle the pressure, and I ended
up riding to Park Hills Community Hospital in the back of an
ambulance.
“Riley,” Dad says. He doesn't use his congressman voice;
but that's probably a calculated choice. All of his choices are
calculated. “I know these events aren't your favorite part of
the process.”
“But you've been doing great,” Mom says. “We think
you're ready.”
Dad nods. “This is a big one, Riley. We need you there.”
I don't look directly at either of them; instead, I let my
gaze linger in the space between, and my eyes drift out of
focus.
“Okay,” I say.
Dad nods and pats Mom's hand before taking up his fork
and knife again. “This will all be over in five weeks.”
I try to smile, but I can't seem to fake it.
When I'm finished eating, I retreat to the kitchen, thinking
I'll drop my plate in the sink and escape to my room—but
Mom follows me in. It's an ambush. I give her a quick smile
and try to move past her—one last attempt to avoid further
questions—but she stops me with a hand on my shoulder.
“Hang on a second,” she says. “I want to talk to you.”
I stop and look at her. “Okay. About what?”
Mom sighs and reaches up to push my bangs out of my
eyes. “I know how you must be feeling,” she says.
“Really?” I say, raising my eyebrows. “How is that?” I
don't mean for it to come out sounding angry, but it does.
Mom opens her mouth, then closes it, then opens it
again. She looks ridiculous, like a spilled goldfish gasping for
oxygen—and then I realize that I do the same thing when
I'm at a loss for words, and my anger flares even hotter.
Mom shrinks back at the look on my face, and I'm
immediately ashamed. The snarky retort I had on deck dies
before it reaches my lips. She drops her eyes. “You're right. I
probably don't know. I went to high school in another
century.” She looks up at me. “Was it a really bad first day?”
“It was fine,” I say. I can tell she's not buying it, so I go
on. “It's just . . . normal stuff. New-school jitters. That's all.”
Mom frowns; she knows there's more to it, but she
doesn't know what or how much. I consider making up a
story—some uncontroversial bad-day scenario that will
alleviate her concern—but something in her look stops me.
There's confusion on her face, but there's tenderness, too.
My heart seems to swell, and I wonder if there's a way she
could understand. If I just tell the truth.
But I'm pretty sure the truth would break her heart, and
my father's, too.
I'm their only kid, and sometimes I feel guilty for being
how I am. I think maybe they would have been happier with
a son who would play football like Dad did. Or, maybe Mom
might have preferred a daughter she could paint her
toenails with and take to ballet lessons. But instead, they
got me—something they don't quite understand and tend to
handle alternately like a glass figurine and a feral cat.
No, I can't tell her what's really going on. But I have to
tell her something.
“It's . . .” My voice trails off. I don't know what to say.
Mom finishes the sentence for me. “The other kids?” she
says, pretty much hitting the bull's-eye. But I don't want to
go there, so I deflect.
“It's the campaign, you know. All the attention. I'm not . .
. I just really want to blend in here.” This last part sort of
slips out without my permission. I didn't intend to be so
honest, and now there's a lump in my throat.
“Well,” she says, tilting her head to one side as she takes
in my appearance. “Maybe ‘blending in' is overrated.”
CHAPTER 5
I TRY TO SLEEP, but little snippets of the day's events
keep playing over and over in my head, like the looping DVD
menu sequence of some bad high school movie. After
staring at the ceiling for I don't know how long, I sit up and
turn on my computer.
NEW POST: GENDER FLUID DYSPHORIA BLUES
OCTOBER 2, 1:04 AM
Dear Follower (singular),
I can't sleep. Right now, I'm sitting on my bed,
hating my body. My arms feel wrong. They're not soft
or supple, but they're not firm or muscular, either. My
chest is, like . . . too slender to be masculine, but too
angular to be feminine. I don't feel “girl” or “boy”
right now, I just feel . . . other. I feel wrong.
Sometimes this happens after a long day of dressing
neutrally; it's like I need to press Reset or something. I
wish I knew how.
I need something loud to drown out this feeling, so I get
up, plug my headphones into my record player, and drop
the needle. And then I sit back down on my bed and start to
type again. I read what I've written, decide that it's a load of
self-pitying drivel, and almost delete it—but then I think
about Doctor Ann, and how she says complaining isn't
therapeutic, but sharing is. Fine, then. I'll “share.”
NOW PLAYING: “Transgender Dysphoria
Blues” by Against Me!
I remember the exact moment I realized I was
different.
It was my sixth birthday, and my dad took me to
Toys“R”Us to pick out my own present. I was allowed
to choose one thing, and I walked the aisles for what
felt like hours to my six-year-old self. Finally, I
narrowed it down to two possibilities. The first was a
blue Power Ranger—I remember I wanted it because it
had a shield that lit up when you pushed a button on
his belt. The second was a Bratz doll. She had
enormous brown eyes and long, dark hair with a
purple streak running down one side. I was totally
fascinated by that purple streak.
I held the two packages side by side, looking from
one to the other, unable to decide. When I glanced up
at my dad for help, his expression was . . . weird. I
knew something was wrong, that for some reason, he
didn't approve of my choices—but I didn't know why.
So I put down both toys and walked on to the next
aisle.
Looking back, it probably wouldn't have been that
big of a deal if I'd chosen one or the other. But that
uncertain look in my dad's face—that was the
moment I knew there was something different about
me.
We ended up getting some stupid Pirates of the
Caribbean board game; I was disappointed, but I could
tell from my dad's body language that it was a safe
choice. And that's what I've been trying to make my
whole life.
Safe choices.
Until I turned fifteen. There was a local news story
about a transgender girl who sued her school district
for the right to use the girls' locker room. I must have
read the story on five different news sites, and then I
voraciously inhaled every blog post and YouTube
response I could get my eyes on. At some point during
my research, I came across the term “gender fluid.”
Reading those words was a revelation. It was like
someone tore a layer of gauze off the mirror, and I
could see myself clearly for the first time. There was a
name for what I was. It was a thing. Gender fluid.
Sitting there in front of my computer—like I am
right now—I knew I would never be the same. I could
never go back to seeing it the old way; I could never
go back to not knowing what I was.
But did that glorious moment of revelation really
change anything? I don't know. Sometimes, I don't
think so. I may have a name for what I am now—but
I'm just as confused and out of place as I was before.
And if today is any indication, I'm still playing out that
scene in the toy store—trying to pick the thing that
will cause the least amount of drama. And not having
much success. Which leaves me with this question:
What would it take to change something?
I rub my burning eyes and stare at the question I just
typed out. As I read, the words seem to lose their meaning. I
glance at the clock.
Holy crap, single follower, it's almost two a.m. I
guess we'll have to wait for an answer to that
question.
Good night, Bloglr.
#genderfluid #GenderFluidProblems
#GenderDysphoria #AgainstMe!
I click Post and lean back against the wall. I haven't
thought about that day in the toy store since I was a kid. I'm
not even sure I remembered it until I typed it out—but now,
the details hover, fresh and vivid in my memory: the rough
denim of my dad's jeans against my cheek as I clutched his
leg. The dark lines that formed between his eyebrows as I
looked up from the toy packages, seeking his approval. That
sensation of compression, of being trapped, of knowing
there was something wrong with what I wanted, and that I
had to hide it from everyone—especially my dad.
And then, sitting there on my bed, remembering—it's like
a dam breaks, and a dozen other memories flood my mind
at once: staring at my reflection in one of those angled
shoe-store mirrors when I was six or seven, thinking there
was something wrong with my body. Glancing up to gauge
my dad's expression as we picked out books in the
children's section at Barnes & Noble. Riding home from the
salon with my mom, hating my new haircut. Sorting through
paint swatches the summer we moved here, watching her
face for that smile of validation as I picked out colors for my
room. Struggling to choose the “right” eighth-grade elective.
Shopping for clothes. All the decisions I made to hide the
feelings I didn't understand—and every single choice altered
by the fear that I would choose wrong, and that my parents,
or my teachers, or the people at my school would reject me.
My whole life, designed around hiding.
But today, even with all my careful forethought, I
couldn't hide. People at school still knew something was
different.
I grab my phone and turn on the selfie camera so I can
look at myself. I run a hand through my messy hair,
brushing my bangs out of my eyes and watching them fall
right back into place. A cracked image stares back at me,
and it doesn't look anything like I feel.
The clock on my laptop changes from 1:59 to 2:00, and I
decide I'd better try to get some sleep unless I want to wake
up tomorrow looking like an androgynous harbinger of the
zombie apocalypse. I'm about to log out of Bloglr when a
little red envelope icon appears in the upper right-hand
corner of my screen, indicating I have a new message. I
click it, and a new window pops up.
Anonymous: your a fag
And suddenly, I feel very awake.
Alix: Dear Anonymous, while I'm eager to illustrate
for you the difference between sexual orientation and
gender identity, I think we had better start with a
more fundamental concept:
Apostrophes.
What you meant was, “You're a fag.” “Your,” sans
apostrophe, is possessive, as in “your devastating lack
of creativity,” while “you're” is a contraction of you +
are, as in “you're a homophobic asshole.” I hope this
sheds some light on the misery that is your life.
Love,
Alix
#genderfluid #homophobia
#grammarpolicearrestthisperson
I could reply privately—but I decide that this particular
anon would benefit from a little public smackdown. So, with
a rush of righteous triumph, I click Post. I watch the screen
for a solid minute, waiting for a snarky reply to pop up, but
nothing happens. Apparently, even the trolls have gone to
bed, and so should I. Like leprechaun gold, the triumph is
fleeting, and now exhaustion takes its place. I close my
laptop, drop my head to the pillow, and fall asleep.
CHAPTER 6
I DREAM ABOUT CHOOSING THE Bratz doll and awake
with a nearly irresistible compulsion to put a purple streak in
my hair. I'm feeling absurdly feminine—like the compass
needle is all the way on F—so pulling on my
neutral/ambiguous jeans-and-tee combination feels
particularly wrong, because what I really want to do is put
on a dress.
The dysphoria is going to be rough this morning; I can
already feel the buzz in the back of my head. Crossing the
quad feels like one of those dreams where you go to school
naked—I keep imagining that the people around me can see
how wrong I feel in these neutral clothes. I get to Miss
Crane's classroom early and apply a coat of lip balm, a trick
I learned from another gender fluid blogger. It feels enough
like gloss to give me a small sense of outward femininity
without spoiling my neutral look—and no one else can tell. It
helps, a little. That buzz—anxiety or dysphoria, I'm not sure
which—recedes slightly, but it doesn't quite disappear.
I feel Solo's eyes on me as he walks into AP English, but I
don't meet them. Why did he bother pretending to be nice
to me yesterday, only to ignore me in front of his friends? I
avoid looking at him for the duration of the class—and when
the bell rings, I'm the first one out the door.
Ten minutes into AP Government, the buzzing sensation
starts to intensify. My arms feel particularly wrong—too
skinny and angular for how feminine I'm feeling—so I pull
my hoodie out of my bag and put it on, tugging down the
sleeves. It doesn't make much difference. I cross my legs at
the knee—sometimes a shift in posture helps—but today,
it's not bringing any relief.
French passes in a blur. All I can think about is trying to
cross the quad feeling like this—or worse, walking the
Gauntlet. My heart is beating in my throat now, and a numb
tingling blossoms in my cheeks and the tips of my fingers.
It's starting.
But I know what I'm supposed to do. I'm supposed to
close my eyes and picture the whiteboard. I'm supposed to
paint it black with my mind until there's nothing left but a
calm, quiet void.
I close my eyes. I dip my imaginary paintbrush into the
surrounding blackness and begin to paint the board with
long, slow strokes. Long, slow strokes. I'm three-quarters of
the way to the right edge, almost done, when a patch of
white appears on the left border. The black is dripping away,
revealing more and more of the whiteboard beneath.
This always happens; I've never once succeeded in
painting the whole board black. Sometimes the exercise
manages to calm me anyway—but this time, it's not
working.
My face is completely numb now, and the tingling has
spread through my hands all the way up to the wrists. My
shortness of breath must be audible, because the pretty girl
with long blond hair who sits in front of me, Casey Reese,
keeps looking over her shoulder at me.
As I pass her on my way out of class, she asks, “Ça va?”
“Yeah, thanks,” I reply.
But I'm not okay.
My vision is starting to tunnel. I'm not thinking, just
putting one foot in front of the other—and before I know it,
I'm halfway down the stairs to the cafeteria. When I realize
where I am, ten yards from the Gauntlet, part of me wants
to turn and run; but I don't. I continue forward, eyes on the
ground, drawing my shoulders up toward my ears as if I'm
bracing for impact.
I've covered most of the distance to the cafeteria line,
and there have been no taunts yet, nothing thrown; maybe
the novelty of harassing the new kid has worn off. As I pass
Solo's table, I'm tempted to glance over and see if he's
watching, but I keep my head down instead; it's not much
farther. My heart thuds against my rib cage.
And then I'm through. I make it to the outdoor hallway
and break into a run. The concrete wall of the auditorium
blurs past as I round the corner. Just ahead, there's a
wheelchair ramp by the side stage door. It's protected by a
low wall about two feet high—just enough to conceal me if I
lie flat on my back.
Finally, I make it, Doc Martens squeaking as I come to a
stop on the smooth concrete. I bend over, chest heaving,
hands gripping the aluminum safety rail. I try to slow my
breathing.
But then a hand touches my shoulder, and I flinch hard.
“Take it easy,” a voice says.
My eyes are blurred with tears, and I draw one still-numb
hand across them to clear my vision: the figure standing
before me is the pale boy from Government I saw sitting
with the Hardcores yesterday—the one with the long nose
and the lip ring. He's standing on the ramp, hands up in a
gesture of surrender. Despite the heat, he's wearing that
same black coat. Circular sunglasses with mirrored lenses
obscure the blue eyes I remember from yesterday, and I
can't tell if the look on his face is more surprised or amused.
There's something soft about the curve of his jaw, and the
neck of his T-shirt is cut low to reveal—
And that's when I realize: He's not a boy. He's a girl.
“I'm sorry,” she says, lowering her hands slowly, “but
you've discovered my secret lair.” She gestures at the ramp.
“And now, I'm afraid, you'll have to pay the toll.”
I stare at her, speechless, gasping for breath.
“I accept juice boxes, Amazon gift cards, and narcotics,”
she says. Then, in response to my blank look, she adds, “For
the toll.”
I recognize that it's a joke, but I don't manage to laugh.
My face is still numb, and my heart is beating a frantic
tattoo against my breastbone.
The girl seems to realize something is wrong, because
her expression softens. “Hey,” she says, pulling down her
sunglasses to regard me with those bright-blue eyes. “Hey,
sit down.” She moves to help me sit on the ramp—well, it's
more like I fall and she catches me—and then she pulls off
her backpack and produces a juice box. “Here, drink this.”
She punches in the straw and hands it to me, and I drink. My
heartbeat slows. The tingling recedes a little.
She sits there, watching me patiently. I expect to find her
gaze invasive—but there's no threat in her eyes, just
curiosity, and . . . something else. Something strangely
comforting.
Her voice is high-pitched and doesn't match her punkboy
wardrobe, but despite my initial mistake, I'm certain she
identifies as a girl. Maybe it's the confident way she wears
her low-cut shirt, or the angle of her neck as she cocks her
head at me—but beneath these superficial observations,
there's just a strong intuition.
What I'm not certain about is how she views me. When a
girl sees me as a guy, I usually feel dismissed as unworthy
or, at best, as nonthreatening. When a girl thinks I'm a girl, I
get the feeling she's comparing and judging me. But this girl
isn't doing any of those things. Her posture is open, her
body relaxed. And even though her eyes are hidden behind
mirrored lenses, there's an intimacy about her expression
that penetrates my wall of anxiety and sends a shiver
through me—but a shiver of what? I don't know.
“Are you diabetic?” she says.
I shake my head. She frowns.
“Are you having a psychic vision?”
I shake my head again, feeling the hint of a smile curl the
corners of my mouth. “I can wait,” she says, glancing at her
wrist in a gesture of feigned impatience.
A slurping sound informs me that I have finished this
juice box, which is odd, because I don't remember tasting it
at all. The girl pulls another out of her backpack and offers it
to me. I reach for it, but she pulls it back.
“I require a name,” she says.
I smile. “Your parents didn't give you one?”
She opens her mouth in mock surprise and leaps to her
feet.
“The creature speaks!” she says, standing and shouting
down at the parking lot below. “I hath revived it with mine
purple potion!”
I glance up nervously, checking to see if anyone's looking
at us. Is this girl making fun of me? I can't tell. But the last
thing I want, the last thing I can handle right now, is more
attention.
“Listen,” I say. “Please don't—”
But Lip Ring Girl is now making a four-point bow, blowing
kisses to an imaginary audience. “I'd like to thank the
Academy, my fans, my team at Minute Maid who—”
At this point I reach up, grab her by the sleeve, and yank
her back down onto the ramp. “Riley,” I say, exasperated.
“My name is Riley. Please, just don't attract any more
attention.”
“Right,” she says, straightening her collar. “Riley
Cavanaugh.”
She knows my name, too?
At the look on my face, the girl puts up her hands again.
“I'm not a stalker. Brennan said your name in Government
yesterday.” She leans in. “He called on you, and I tried to
bail you out, remember?”
I nod. “Yeah. Thanks.”
“Then you pulled that obscure factoid out of thin air.
Maybe I ought to make you tutor me, as partial payment.”
She tilts her head and squints like she's examining me. After
a moment, she nods. “I'm Bec.”
I blink at her. “Short for Rebecca?”
She closes her eyes for a moment and lets out an
exasperated sigh. “Le bec,” she says, “is French for ‘beak.'”
She gestures to her face. “I have a large nose. Beak-like,
one might say. Therefore, Bec.”
I frown. “Who could've possibly given you that name?
Some mean French kid?”
“Absolutely not,” she says. “I gave it to myself.”
I shake my head, incredulous.
“Not everyone is born a Riley,” she says. And then her
thin lips form a delightfully crooked smile. It's contagious.
She offers me the second juice box, and I take it.
“Did you . . . follow me behind the building?”
“Yes, I did,” she says, sounding completely unperturbed.
I take a long sip through the straw. “Why?”
“After yesterday, I didn't think you'd come anywhere
near the caf again. I told myself that, if you did, then you
were the kind of person I wanted to meet.” She inclines her
head like a Renaissance courtier. “Well met, Riley
Cavanaugh.”
She noticed me? Two days in a row? I gape at her, then
realize what I'm doing and clamp my jaw shut.
“So,” she says, glossing over my awkwardness as though
this sort of thing happens to her all the time. “You're a
transfer?”
“Yeah.”
“Where from?”
I hesitate, then say, “Immaculate Heart.”
Bec starts to laugh, something between a giggle and a
chuckle. I feel myself blush. I start to get up, but she grabs
my hand. Her fingers are cold, her palm smooth, and her
touch sends goose bumps up my arm.
“I wasn't laughing at you, I promise. Look.” She pulls
open her peacoat, revealing the graphic on her T-shirt: a
large black cross inside a red circle with a diagonal line
running through it. Above that, the caption reads: BAD
RELIGION. “I was laughing at the irony,” she says, “that I'm
welcoming your defection from Catholic school wearing a
Bad Religion shirt.”
“Oh, right,” I say, relieved, “the band.” When she lets go
of my hand, I feel a pang of disappointment. She pats the
ground next to her, and I sit. “I thought maybe you were
referring to my school's unfortunate nickname.”
Bec leans in. “You realize you're going to tell me, right?”
I sigh. Of course I am. “Instead of Immaculate Heart, they
called it ‘I Masturbate Hard.'”
Bec laughs. It starts out as that low chuckle, but quickly
becomes a full-on guffaw. Now, I start laughing, too.
“Sounds like my kind of place,” Bec says, finally
regaining her breath. When I realize what she's implying, I
feel myself blush for the nine thousandth time in two days.
Our laughter fades, and I notice that, though my heart is still
beating harder than usual, the tingling in my hands and face
is almost gone.
“What's your real name?” I ask.
But Bec speaks right on the heels of my last word, as if
she didn't hear me.
“So, you're not diabetic,” she says. “Were you, like,
about to have a seizure? Is it epilepsy?”
I open my mouth to reply, and then the bell rings, a long,
ugly wail. It's how I imagine the lights-out buzzer sounds at
Folsom Prison.
Bec gets to her feet and offers me a hand. I take it. She
pulls me up and we just stand there, looking at each other.
Finally, I can't take the silence anymore. “Saved by the
bell,” I say.
She blinks. “You're better than a cliché.”
My stomach does a flip. I almost ask her, How do you
know? But at the thought of saying the words, my face goes
hot as a match head. Unable to meet her gaze any longer, I
glance down at the unopened juice box in my hand, and
offer it back to her.
“Keep it,” she says, then turns and walks down the ramp.
CHAPTER 7
MOM'S SCHOOL HAD AN EARLY-OUT day, so I'm not
surprised to find her minivan already in the driveway when I
get home, but what I don't expect to see is the unfamiliar
red Mercedes that's parked next it to it. If Mom's having
some kind of campaign-related meeting, I don't want to get
drawn into it, so I enter the house as quietly as I can. I hear
voices drifting up from the kitchen; she's definitely not
alone. I turn to head upstairs to my room—and then the
door to the downstairs bathroom opens.
A short girl about my age with long brown hair steps out.
She looks up, and my mouth drops open slightly in surprise
—it's the girl who called me it. Hastily, she tugs down her
sleeves and folds her arms—and then she appears to
recognize me, too.
“Hi,” she says, but it sounds more like a threat than a
greeting.
“Hi,” I reply.
I'm about to ask what she's doing in my house when a
voice calls from the kitchen, “Sierra, come in here. I want
you to show Mrs. Cavanaugh how the tea tree oil cleared up
those blemishes.”
The girl—Sierra—closes her eyes, shakes her head, then
turns and walks back toward the kitchen. I'm already
heading for the stairs when my mom calls me.
“Riley? Did I hear you come in?”
I grip the banister. I don't want to go in there—but now I
don't really have a choice. “Yeah, Mom.”
“Come in and say hello.”
Cautiously, I approach and peek around the corner.
With her tight red dress and long, shiny hair, Sierra's
mom looks more like an older sister. She's seated across
from my mother at the table with a case of little glass
bottles between them. The kitchen smells like a potpourri
factory.
“Look at the size of these blemishes,” she says, swiping
through photos on her phone. Mom is trying to be polite, but
I can see that she's embarrassed. Sierra's mom continues
enthusiastically. “You know teenagers, they eat junk all day
and refuse to take care of their skin. But this stuff works like
a miracle. Sierra, turn around, show her what it looks like
now.”
“Mom—” Sierra starts to protest, but her mother flaps an
impatient hand at her. Reluctantly, Sierra turns and her
mother lifts up the back of her shirt. Now I'm embarrassed,
and I start to retreat into the hallway, but it's too late—
Sierra makes eye contact with me. I expect her to shoot me
a dirty look, but she just grits her teeth and looks away.
When her mother finally lets her sit down, I take a half step
into the room, trying to act as if I haven't been watching the
whole time.
My mom makes the introductions, which I acknowledge
from the archway.
“Sierra runs the peer tutoring program,” my mother says.
“Maybe you could join.”
I try to hide my revulsion at the thought of working
alongside this girl who so obviously loathes me—but Mom
seems to read my thoughts, because she shoots me an
apologetic look. I glance at Sierra to gauge her reaction, but
she's too busy glaring at her mother.
Sierra's mom—Mrs. Wells—ignores her, turning her
attention to me. “Riley,” she says, “you have such fair skin.
Are you using a chemical-free sunscreen?” She reaches for
one of the bottles. I open my mouth to say something, I'm
not sure what—but my mother intervenes.
“I know you'd love to stay and socialize, honey,” she
says, “but you still have a month's worth of homework to
catch up on. Better get to it.”
And then, I swear to God, she winks at me. I suppress a
smile. My mother just came to my rescue. I forgive the
“honey” immediately. In fact, I kind of want to run into the
room and hug her, but instead, I turn and head upstairs.
I know I should feel bad for Sierra—clearly her mom
makes her life a nightmare—but I can't forget how she
treated me yesterday, and it's obvious she doesn't feel bad
for me. I pull my copy of The Crucible out my bag, flop on
my bed, and read until dinner.
Mom excuses me from dish duty so I can log more time
catching up on homework—but my brain is already fried
from two hours of Arthur Miller, so I decide to click around
Bloglr instead. When my dash comes up, I frown at the
numbers.
MESSAGES: 1
FOLLOWERS: 58
That can't be right; when I wrote my first post yesterday,
I had precisely one follower. How could that jump to almost
sixty overnight?
I click on the activity icon. My original post, “Both and
Neither,” which I put up only yesterday, has been liked,
commented on, or reblogged over a hundred times. Beneath
the hashtags is a stream of comments:
BPButtercup: Wow. Just Wow.
IrishPaulie: ^^This.
phoebe98: I feel u Alix!!
I have to scroll down to read them all.
I click on Followers, and a list appears. There's
QueerBoi1996, MiMi_Q, gowestyounglady, and more than
fifty others. All of them are Bloglr users who read my first
post and decided to follow me.
I sit back and stare at the screen as my skepticism gives
way to surprised acceptance. I know how they found me—
the same way I discovered there was a name for what I was
feeling—by searching the internet. Browsing hashtags. And
honestly, it wouldn't have surprised me if a few dozen
people had found my first post at random and liked it—but
over a hundred? In one day?
I lean in and move my pointer down to my second-ever
Bloglr message. I consider clicking Delete without opening
it; I don't want to spoil my good mood with a repeat of “your
a fag.” But, after a moment, I can't stand not knowing what
it says, and I click the message.
yell0wbedwetter: You are #@%^& hilarious and
super helpful. Please post more!!
I want to reply, but I don't know what to say. Finally, I just
type “thanks ☺” and click Send.
I'm oddly touched that some random stranger wrote to
me. The idea that my writing actually helped someone else
makes me want to do more—so I decide to take
yell0wbedwetter's advice. I open a new post and start to
write.
NEW POST: MY RAGING HYPOCRISY. ALSO,
LIGHTSABERS.
OCTOBER 2, 9:47 PM
Today, I met a boy.
Well . . . I thought I met a boy. Actually, I met a girl.
That's right: I got all prematurely gender-assigny . . .
and I was WRONG.
In my defense, I was in the middle of a fairly epic
anxiety episode, and she—whom I thought was a he—
has these unsettlingly gorgeous blue eyes. NO ONE
could be expected to maintain objectivity while under
the gaze of those eyes. They were, like, lightsaber
blue. My guts have turned to Jell-O just replaying the
scene in my head.
Oh, and did I mention the lip ring? HOT.
NOW PLAYING: “There She Goes” by the La's
Okay. Given the fact that even I am capable of
making premature assumptions about someone's
gender, I will attempt to explain this with less than my
usual dose of Gender Fluid Rage™. (Which, by the
way, is the name of my new punk band.) The point
here is that somebody's gender expression—in this
case, Lip Ring Girl's goth-boy vibe—doesn't
necessarily indicate their gender identity. There are
dudes who like to cross-dress (expression), but are still
100% comfortable being dudes (identity), and vice
versa. So, even if you had X-ray vision and could see
through my jeans, what you'd see there—or not see—
does not determine my gender identity. Gender
identity is not external. It isn't dictated by your
anatomy. It's internal. It's something you feel, not
something you see—and it can be way more
complicated than just male or female. Some people,
like me, slide on a continuum between the two.
Others, as I've learned via my pathological blogreading
obsession, feel like neither, or like a third,
unnamed gender.
I can't blame you for trying to categorize me. It's a
human instinct. It's why scientists are, to this day,
completely flabbergasted by the duck-billed platypus:
it's furry like a mammal, but lays eggs like a bird. It
defies conventional classification.
I AM THE PLATYPUS. (Coo coo ka-choo.)
We're all taught from a young age that there are
only two choices: pink or blue, Bratz or Power
Rangers, cheerleading or football. We see gender in
two dimensions because that's what society has
taught us from birth. But, are you ready for a shocking
revelation?
SOCIETY NEEDS TO CHANGE.
#genderfluid #crushinghard #lightsaberblue
When I'm done, I obsessively reread, tweak, delete, and
rewrite. I want it to be funny—but more than that, I want it
to be true. By the time I click Post, it's well past midnight. I
ought to be exhausted from staying up so late last night, but
I'm not. Reliving my encounter with Bec has my mind awake
and racing. So instead of going to sleep, I click around Bloglr
for more than three hours. At first, I intend to do some
heavy reading on gender issues—but that rapidly devolves
into watching funny cat videos and reblogging Harry Potter
gifs. By quarter to two, my eyes start to droop—and then, at
some point later, still curled up with my laptop, I fall asleep.
When I wake up on Wednesday morning, I'm certain it's
going to be a girl day. But then, halfway through English, I
feel a pang of dysphoria—a sort of plasticky sensation, this
time in my hips—and I start to squirm in my chair. I've been
sitting up straight with my legs crossed, but now I put both
feet on the floor and slump down in my desk a little. I even
let my left foot stick out into the aisle. It feels better.
Solo pretty much ignores me the whole period. I'm still
pissed at him, definitely—but underneath, I think I'm more
disappointed. He glances up at me once, but I can't read his
expression; and when class ends, he slips out before I do.
On my way to Government, I notice I'm feeling edgy; that
low-grade anxiety is starting to buzz in my head. The
plasticky feeling comes back, and suddenly my walk feels
artificial and stiff. It takes me a second to realize what's
happening: I'm fluctuating. The needle on my internal
compass is inching away from feminine toward the opposite
pole—and I've been struggling to compensate with the way I
move. Rather than try to fight it with deep breaths or Dr.
Ann's whiteboard exercise, I decide to “go with the flow.” I
reach into my bag and pull out the beanie I keep in case of
bad hair days. I put it on, hook my thumbs into the pockets
of my jeans, and lean into my walk a little. I start to feel
better on the inside—but I wonder what the people around
me think, or whether they even notice.
And then I walk into Brennan's class and see Bec, and all
my concerns are obliterated by her bright-blue eyes, cryptic
and curious as a cat's as they flick up to meet mine. A hint
of that crooked smile plays across her lips, and I feel a
flutter in my chest. It's a pleasant feeling, but totally
disconcerting. I try to smile back, but I'm afraid it comes out
wrong on my face.
I drop my bag and slide into the plastic chair behind her. I
want to lean forward, to say something to her, but before I
can, she turns to face me instead.
“Riley Cavanaugh,” she says.
It's like a purr, the way she wraps her voice around my
name, and suddenly I can't catch my breath.
“B-Hi,” I reply, and feel my face turn purple. I started to
say her name, but changed my mind too late and ended up
sounding like a complete idiot; but Bec goes on as if she
didn't even notice.
“Thursday,” she says. “Seven o'clock.”
I blink. “What?”
“Come to my house at seven o'clock on Thursday,” she
says.
I feel the blood slowly draining from my face. Is she
asking me out?
Without breaking eye contact, Bec gestures over her
shoulder at the whiteboard. Written in red dry-erase marker
are the words “QUIZ FRIDAY.”
“You help me ace this quiz,” Bec says, “and maybe we
can forget about your toll.”
The pleasant fluttering stops abruptly. Bec doesn't want a
date; she wants a study partner. A pet nerd.
“I can't,” I say, suddenly remembering Dad's fund-raiser.
“I have a thing on Thursday.”
“Oh,” she says, raising her eyebrows. “Okay.” For a
second, I detect genuine disappointment—like “I just got
turned down for a date” disappointment, not like “I'm going
to fail this quiz” disappointment. And now I wonder if I've
made a mistake. I open my mouth to say something—but at
that moment, Brennan clears his throat and calls for quiet.
As Bec turns to face the front of the classroom again, I catch
the scent of something sweet—vanilla shampoo?—and all
my neurons seem to fire at once, obliterating any further
rational thoughts. Brennan begins his lecture, but I'm far, far
away. I'm at Bec's house on Thursday night, trying to figure
out if I'm her date or her tutor, and discovering that I
wouldn't mind being either.
Right before class ends, while Brennan is gesturing
emphatically at a diagram of the three branches of
government, Bec reaches behind her and drops a folded
piece of notebook paper onto my desk. Just as I'm about to
unfold it, the bell rings.
CHAPTER 8
BEC ISN'T AT HER USUAL table at lunch, and on Thursday
morning, she doesn't show up for school at all; she must
have come down with a cold or something. Sitting alone on
the ramp, I unfold and read her note for the zillionth time.
It's just the words “In case you reconsider,” and a phone
number.
In case I reconsider what—a date, or a tutoring
appointment? I can't tell if she's being mysterious on
purpose, or if she's already given me some obvious sign
that I'm just too socially inept to recognize. I pull out my
phone, thinking I'll send her a text to say “hi” or “feel better
soon,” but my thumbs just hover helplessly over the screen.
What do I say? And, what if I sound too desperate, and she's
repulsed?
This is why I'm not popular; I can't decode the subtleties
of text message etiquette, let alone figure out how to act
around live people. My thoughts drift to Solo, who appears
to have given up trying to talk to me. Apparently, I
misjudged him like I seem to misjudge everyone. And
instead of keeping my guard up, I've allowed myself to hope
that this place would be different. But so far, the only
difference between Park Hills High and Immaculate Heart is
the clothes.
I click off my phone, refold the note, and stuff it into my
back pocket.
When I get home from school, I drop onto my bed, not
even bothering to open my laptop, and fall asleep.
The muffled sound of my phone's air raid siren alarm tone
wakes me. It's six p.m.; my parents will be home to pick me
up for the fund-raiser in less than an hour. I drag myself out
of bed and cross to my closet.
I stand there, staring at the outfit I have to wear tonight,
which is still wrapped in plastic from the dry cleaner's. It's
the most gendered thing I own, and I hate it.
I hate it.
I call it my “campaign costume.” It's a stupid name, but
it helps me to think of it like that because that's how my
body feels when I wear it—like a cheap Halloween costume
that somebody else chose.
Putting it on is like a suicide ritual; as I dress, I'm killing
any possibility of expressing my other, less acceptable self.
Just standing here looking at it triggers a powerful wave of
dysphoria. My arms feel like plastic. Like mannequin limbs.
The tingling starts up again in my cheeks and the tips of my
fingers. I've got to get this over with.
I take down the hanger and lay it on the bed. I tug off my
jeans and T-shirt, rip open the cellophane bag, and begin to
dress. The material feels suffocating against my skin. I
picture myself walking into the hotel ballroom with my
parents, deafened by applause and blinded by camera
flashes. I put my arms through the sleeves; my hands are
shaking. Another flash goes off, and I can't tell if it's real or
imagined. I pull fabric over my head, and it seems to rush in
at me, clinging to my face like the plastic from the cleaner's,
covering my nose, my mouth. I can't breathe.
I can't do this.
Piece by piece, I tear off the clothes and hurl them
against the closet door. I stand there, chest heaving, staring
at the heap, my breath coming in gasps. And that's when it
hits me: This is what I wore the night I went to the hospital.
There was supposed to be a fund-raiser that night, but
Dad had to cancel it—because of me. I remember I kept
apologizing to him in the ambulance, and his cornflowerblue
tie got tangled in the IV tube as he leaned down to tell
me it was okay. I spent the night at Park Hills Community
Hospital, and the next day, my parents drove me to
Pineview.
I fall back on my bed and stare up at the ceiling. I haven't
thought about that night in a long time.
Pineview was terrible—but it was also kind of . . . easy. I
felt like the healthiest person there, as opposed to how I felt
at Immaculate Heart, like I was the only one who was
broken. It feels good to be the normal one for a change, but
it's awful to be surrounded by sick and hopeless people. Like
being in a room full of the worst possible versions of
yourself, surrounded by reminders of what you'll become if
you don't get better. If you don't fix yourself. And, in those
moments when you're sure you never will, it feels like
there's a rope winding around your body, tightening every
time you exhale. And after a while, you can't even breathe.
I feel that way now, like there's something heavy sitting
on my chest, squeezing the air out of me. I stand and pace
my room, clenching and unclenching my fists, trying to
catch my breath, trying to stave off the tingling already
making its way up my arms. I can't let this happen, not
before a fund-raiser. Not again. I can't do this.
I can't do this.
My dad's ringtone cuts through the air, and I jump. The
phone rings again, and I grab for my jeans, which are still
crumpled on the floor next to the bed. As I pull my phone
out of the back pocket, a slip of paper drops to the floor.
I answer the call, and my mother's voice says, “Riley?”
But I don't reply immediately; I'm still trying to catch my
breath. I can tell I'm on speakerphone in the Lincoln
because I hear my father berating another driver in the
background. Somehow, that grounds me.
“Honey, are you there?”
“Yeah, Mom. Hi.”
“We're on our way. Are you dressed?”
“Almost.” I glance at the clothes piled against the closet
door, then look down at the piece of paper that fluttered to
the floor. Bec's note.
“Well, you better hustle. We'll be there in fifteen minutes
and we cannot be late. Your father . . .”
I put Mom on speaker, then set the phone on my bed and
bend over to pick up the paper. Mom rambles on in her wifeof-
congressman voice, but I've checked out.
In case you reconsider.
“Mom,” I say, attempting to interrupt her stream of
nervous chatter. “Mom!”
“Yes, Riley, what is it?”
“I can't go.”
“What?”
“I can't go to the fund-raiser tonight.”
There's a long pause on the other end. Finally, Mom
speaks. “Is it . . . are you . . .” She thinks I'm having another
episode—which I sort of am, but she doesn't need to know
that.
“No, Mom, it's nothing like that. I kind of . . . made
plans.”
No one says anything for a good ten seconds. I hear the
traffic on the freeway. I hear keys clicking against the dash
panel. And then my dad's voice erupts from the speaker:
“You made plans?” I can almost hear him throwing up his
hands. “Unacceptable, Riley. The election is five weeks
away. Family matters to these people. We have a respons—”
“I have a study date.” I blurt the words without thinking.
“A date?” he says.
I smack my palm against my forehead. Of course that's
what he'd react to. I shouldn't have used that word. Why did
I use that word?
“No, no. It's not a date. I don't know why I said that. It's
just . . . studying.”
I hear my parents whispering to each other, but I can't
make out the words. Then Dad says, “Studying for what?”
“I have an AP Government test.” Technically, I'm telling
my parents the truth. It feels odd.
“When?” Dad says. He's asking for details. That means
he's considering letting me off the hook. He's actually
considering it.
“Tomorrow, second period,” I say, and then words start to
spew out of my mouth like noodles from my mom's pasta
maker. “Brennan's really tough, Dad. He's not cutting me
any slack even though I transferred. Also, I think he
recognized my name. I'll feel like an idiot if the
congressman's kid doesn't ace the first test.”
More whispering.
“Where are you going?” Dad asks. “Will there be parental
superv—” I hear a thwack on the other end. “Ow. What,
Sharon?”
“Riley?”
“Yeah, Mom.”
“You can go on your study date.”
“It's not a date, Mom.”
“Okay, it's not a date. Your father and I think it's great
that you're making friends.”
“Who is it?” Dad asks.
“Just someone from my Government class.”
“Boy or g—”
“Sean!”
“All right, all right!”
Mom clears her throat, then says, “Study hard and we'll
see you after the event.”
“Home by ten,” Dad says.
“Okay,” I say.
“Bye, honey.”
“Bye.” The call ends, and I stare at my phone in
fascination and disbelief. It actually worked. I don't have to
go to the event.
Overcome with relief, I collapse onto my bed. I play back
the phone call in my head and decide it was probably the
most normal conversation I've had with my parents in years.
Except for one part: Boy or girl? My dad was about to ask
before Mom cut him off.
Boy or girl?
The question rings in my head, the implications echoing
around the inside of my skull like a ricocheting bullet. Dad
was probably asking because he suspects I'm gay. That's
not so bad, especially since he seems open to talking about
it. But then, Mom cut him off before he could ask; why? Is it
because she's not okay with it? Or because she suspects
something more, and didn't want to open a can of worms
right before an event?
A bark of laughter escapes me. I don't know why, but just
now, the thought that my parents are trying to figure me
out strikes me funny. They have no idea what's actually
going on with me. And, for now, that's how I want it.
I unfold the note and read it again. Bec's writing is nearly
illegible, a tangled scrawl of black letters.
In case you reconsider.
She wrote it, so she must have wanted me to come over.
But then she went AWOL. She might be sick, or out of town
—or, she might be home, waiting for me to call. Just the
thought of it heats up my cheeks.
I turn my head to glance at my laptop. I could just stay
here, reread the chapter summaries, and then burn five
hours on Bloglr and tell my parents the studying went well.
They'd never know the difference. But then I remember
Bec's bright-blue eyes and the cold, smooth touch of her
hand on mine.
I take a deep breath and punch in the number.
The phone rings. It rings again. I end the call. Apparently
I can't do this, either.
I stare up at the screen, trying to decide if I should call
again—and then the phone surprises me by ringing in my
hand, and I drop it on my face. It glances off my chin,
bounces on the mattress, slides across the carpet, and
comes to rest under my dresser. It rings three more times as
I scramble off the bed and drop to my knees to retrieve it.
It's way in the back, by the wall, and I have to press the side
of my face to the dresser to reach it. Finally, I lay a finger on
the phone, ease it out from its hiding place, and answer it
on the fifth ring.
“Hello?” I say, slightly out of breath.
“You called right on time.”
At the sound of Bec's voice, my face splits in a grin. “How
did you know it was me?”
“This is Sam, right?”
My heart leaps into my mouth. “Sam? Who—”
“I'm kidding, Riley.”
My heart slides back down my throat and into its usual
place in my chest.
“I knew you would call,” she says.
“Really?”
“Mmm-hmm. I spiked those juice boxes with an addictive
chemical. I knew you could only withstand the cravings for
so long.” Even though I'm alone in my room, my whole body
heats up. It's like a fever chill.
“Earth to Riley,” Bec says.
“Yeah, I'm here.”
“I thought you had a thing.”
“I did. I mean, I do. I mean, I'm not going. So.” I bury my
face in my pillow. Please kill me now. I do not know how to
speak English to the human people.
Bec says, “You . . . still want to study for Brennan?” The
way she stretches out the word “you” makes it sound
almost like a panther growl.
“Sure,” I say, trying not to sound eager, and failing
miserably.
“I'll text you my address.”
CHAPTER 9
BEC LIVES ON THE OLDER SIDE of town, in a
neighborhood separated from the more upscale part of Park
Hills by Banyan Road, a wide, diagonal street marred by
potholes and a defunct train track running down the center.
Most of the streetlights on her block are out, and I have to
click on my high beams to read the fading addresses
painted on the curb. I spot her street number and pull over,
suddenly self-conscious about the shiny newness of my
mom's minivan in contrast to the peeling paint on Bec's old,
one-story house. I get out, walk up the crumbling concrete
steps, and knock on the door. There's no answer. I see light
from a TV flickering through the thin curtains, so I ring the
doorbell.
Heavy footsteps approach, and the door opens. A tall,
extremely overweight boy with a shaved head looks down at
me from behind the screen door. He's wearing a sweaty
gray T-shirt and has a video game controller clutched in one
hand. His breath comes in wheezes.
“Hi,” I say. “Is Bec—”
The boy cuts me off. “Shh! My mom's resting.” I start to
reply, but then he pushes open the warped screen door, and
I take a step back instead. The boy squints down at me. It's
the look that precedes the Question, or the taunt, or
whatever is coming. I brace myself for it—and then, to my
relief, Bec appears in the doorway.
“Thanks, Erik,” she says. “I'll take it from here.”
But Erik pays her no attention; his eyes are still on me.
“Are you—” he starts, but Bec cuts him off.
“Erik. Game. Go.”
He shoots Bec a death glare, but she doesn't look away.
After a moment, his eyes flick back toward me. “Have fun
studying,” he says, then retreats into the living room.
Bec watches him go, then turns to me and says in a
hushed voice, “Come on in.”
An ancient square TV dominates one side of the family
room. Somebody, probably Erik, has dragged an old blue
couch and a mangy beige recliner off to one side to make
room for a white plastic mat, which lies in the center of the
patchy rug. Erik steps onto it and unpauses his game. It's on
mute, but the screen flashes as he drops clumsily to his
knees and starts doing what my father would refer to as
“girl push-ups.” It's some kind of workout game; on screen,
a beefy dude in a muscle shirt makes encouraging gestures
as Erik matches his avatar push-up for push-up.
“My room's back here,” Bec whispers, then leads me
through the family room and into the hall. We come to a
room at the back of the house, and Bec pauses outside the
door.
“Sorry about Erik being a dick,” she says.
“It's okay.”
“He's had a rough week. Some guy on the football team
is yanking his chain.”
Immediately, I think of Jim Vickers. “Who?”
“I don't know, some meathead douchebag. He's fooled
Erik into believing he's got a chance to make the team if he
loses weight and does a few ‘favors.' Which probably means
pulling pranks that could get him kicked out of school, or
God knows what else.” Bec glances back toward the family
room, a tender expression on her face. “I tried to tell him
they're just making fun of him, but he won't listen.” She
shrugs. “Anyway.” With a smile and a flourish, Bec opens the
door and motions me in. “Welcome to my humble abode,”
she says, closing the door behind us.
This is clearly the master bedroom, but it's tiny—smaller
than my room at home. I look around, trying to hide my
confusion, because the layout doesn't make sense at all.
The room is split down the middle, with a twin bed resting
against each of the long walls. One side of the room has
been painted dark gray, while the other side is a painfully
bright shade of yellow. Unframed charcoal drawings adorn
the walls on the yellow side, and in a corner against one of
the gray walls, a battered electric guitar leans against an
old schoolhouse desk. At first, I wonder if this bipolar
arrangement is a manifestation of some hidden mental
illness, but after a few seconds, I realize it's more likely that
two people share this room. Across the sliding closet door—
also half gray and half yellow—someone has applied an
enormous rainbow decal that seems to bridge the two
halves of the room. I can't imagine Bec putting up a sticker
like that.
“I had a sister,” Bec says, and I jump. I had almost
forgotten she was in the room with me.
“Oh,” I say.
“She died a while back. I keep it like this to remember
her. I hope that doesn't freak you out.”
“No,” I say. “Not at all.” But it kind of does.
Bec is looking at one of the charcoal drawings, a portrait
of a horse standing behind a split-rail fence. In the
background, heavy storm clouds gather.
“Are these yours?” I ask.
“Oh, God, no. I can't even draw stick figures.” She turns,
smiles at me.
I set my bag down on the desk chair and gesture at the
guitar. “Do you play?”
“Yeah. Not great, but good enough for rock and roll.” A
sudden image of Bec on stage, thrashing away at this redand-
black duct-taped guitar, sends a wave of heat through
my midsection. My eyes lock with hers, and for an unknown
interval of time, I'm lost in bright blue.
Finally, Bec breaks the spell. “I guess we ought to study,
huh?”
I look away. “Yeah. Totally,” I say, reaching into my bag to
get my laptop.
“So, did I miss anything while I was out?”
“Not much.” I set my computer on the desk and push the
power button. “Actually, I don't know. I've sort of had a hard
time paying attention in class. There's a lot going on.”
“I know what you mean,” Bec says.
“So, how come you weren't at school the past few days?”
Bec looks away. “My dad travels a lot for work,” she says.
“Sometimes I get to go with him.”
“Oh. Is he still traveling?”
“He doesn't live with us,” she says, crossing to push in an
open drawer hanging out of her dresser. She lingers there
for a second with her back to me, and I decide to change
the subject.
“Do you have Wi-Fi?” I ask. And then I think about the old
square TV and the crumbling steps out front, and I'm
suddenly embarrassed that I brought my brand-new Mac.
But Bec is unfazed. “Erik hacks it from our neighbor. He's
a savant with computers.” She holds out her hands for the
laptop. “He has to tweak your settings.”
Reluctantly, I hand it over.
While Bec is out of the room, I resist the temptation to do
any serious snooping. I do, however, glance at her extensive
and scattered book collection, and I'm delighted to find two
of my favorites, Catcher in the Rye and Bridge to Terabithia,
among the more worn-looking paperbacks.
A few minutes later, she returns with my computer, and
we're connected. She stretches out on her bed, resting her
chin on her palms, while I sit at the desk and open a
browser window. I go to the school website and click on Mr.
Brennan's page.
“So,” I say, “according to the syllabus: ‘This quiz will
consist of five essay questions about how online dialogue
shapes the American political climate.'”
Bec groans. “Kill me now. Essay questions? On a quiz?”
I scroll down. “We're supposed to click through this list of
links in preparation.”
“Well,” she says, sliding off the bed, “I'm going to need a
drink, you want something?”
“What do you have?”
She ticks the options off on her fingers. “RC Cola, juice
boxes, cooking sherry, drain cleaner. I'm probably going for
drain cleaner.”
I laugh. “I'll have one of those addictive juice boxes. You
know, to prevent withdrawal.”
Bec smiles. “Good thinking. I'll be right back.”
Bec returns with two juice boxes. She hands me one,
pops the straw into her own, and then raises it in a toast.
“To Mr. Brennan.”
“And our fragile republic,” I reply, and we click our juice
boxes together.
Bec leans back, eyeing me. “You're funny,” she says.
“Defense mechanism,” I reply. “Like how sea cucumbers
vomit their guts at you when they feel threatened.”
“Do they actually do that?”
“I don't know. But I choose to believe it because it's an
exceptional metaphor.”
Bec takes a pull on her straw, swallows. “So, you feel
threatened?”
I blush, immediately and completely.
“Hey,” she says, scooting toward me on the bed. “I'm
sorry. I do that sometimes. I push people's buttons.” And
then, she puts her hand on my knee. It's an innocent
enough gesture . . . or is it? I feel the heat in my face
intensify.
“I'm—it's fine,” I say. “I just have a blushing thing. It's a
—”
“Defense mechanism?” Bec offers.
“Something like that.”
“Well, that's more sanitary than vomiting your guts out,”
she says. I laugh. Then she sort of pats me on the leg. It's a
weirdly maternal gesture, and it immediately douses the fire
that had begun to spread through my body with a flood of
disappointment. For a moment, when she put her hand on
my leg, I thought she was . . . I don't know, hitting on me.
But then it became this weird leg-patting thing, and the
energy changed. Ugh. It's so frustrating being totally
incapable of interpreting signals—and on top of that, I still
don't know how she views me. If she sees me as a girl, am I
just, like, a friend? Or, is she into girls? Or, if she gets more
of a guy vibe from me, am I her type? Or am I just some
nerd she can flirt with to get tutoring?
If Bec notices my reaction, she doesn't show it. She sits
back against the wall and says, “All right. Teach me stuff
about things.”
We spend the next hour clicking through the links on
Brennan's syllabus. Half of them lead to clean, white,
extremely boring government websites, but the other half
link to pages run by various fringe political groups and
conspiracy theorists. Most of these are wildly colorful, poorly
formatted blogs that look like they were designed roughly
the same year Titanic won Best Picture—but the content is
fascinating.
One guy's blog consists entirely of videos of him ranting
about how the Patriot Act was a direct violation of the Bill of
Rights. Another guy—who my father would term a “nut
job”—blathers on and on about how there's actually no law
that requires American citizens to pay income tax.
“What's the point of all this?” Bec says, gesturing at the
screen with her drink box straw, which she has chewed into
a knot. “Half of them seem legit, but the other half look like
they're run by the tinfoil-hat brigade.”
“Which is the name of my new rock band,” I say.
“Huh?”
“Tinfoil Hat Brigade.”
Bec rolls her eyes, and I feel my face start to heat up
again. If she thought I was even vaguely appealing before,
I'm doing an excellent job of changing her mind.
In an effort to divert attention away from my apparently
repulsive nerdiness, I return my focus to the screen. “We
only have a couple more sites to go.”
The next link leads to the home page of a democratic
congresswoman from Texas. Below her bio, there's a grid of
icons, all of them logos of associations that have endorsed
her for reelection. One of them is a sparkling, animated
rainbow.
“What's the rainbow?” Bec asks.
So I click it.
A clean, well-formatted page comes up. At the top,
there's the rainbow logo again, and the masthead reads:
QueerAlliance.org
LGBTQ Resources
“Pretty controversial endorsement for a Texan,” Bec says.
“Yeah, right?” I'm doing my best to keep my face
impassive; I know this site. I've never been to the home
page, but I've clicked through links on Bloglr and read a few
articles on it. Mostly, QueerAlliance.org consists of posts by
gay and trans community leaders—but I did find one by a
gender fluid writer in San Francisco that helped me a lot,
back when I was still trying to figure out what was going
with me. In any case, I never expected it to show up on a
homework assignment.
Below the menu, there's a square photo of a
professional-looking woman with a broad smile and short
wavy hair, captioned “Mike/Michelle Weston.” Next to that is
a calendar of events, including several pride festivals and
the annual Transgender Day of Remembrance in November.
I scroll down.
In a section called “What's New,” there's a list of
“Featured Blogs” with photos, short descriptions, and links
to each site. I scan through them.
When I see my David Bowie avatar, I almost drop my
juice box.
The description reads:
Hiding and Other Social Skills
Alix's online diary communicates the experience
of being young and gender fluid with personal
stories and humorous rants Hastily, I click the
Back button, silently praying Bec wasn't paying
attention. How did my blog end up on this
website?
“I should get home,” I say, powering down my Mac.
“What? Now?” Bec says. She sits up on the bed. “Is
everything okay?”
“Yeah,” I say, stuffing the laptop into my bag. “It's just
getting late.”
Bec glances at her watch. “It's, like, eight fifteen.”
“On school nights I'm supposed to be home by eight
thirty.” It's a lie, but it comes easily enough.
“Okay, well, I'll walk you out.”
My head is spinning as I drive away from her house,
thoughts going back and forth in my mind: What are the
odds my blog would turn up on Brennan's homework
assignment? Did Bec notice my panicked reaction? And then
I think about the awkward knee-patting incident, and I want
to bury my face in a pillow until I suffocate. Was she flirting,
or am I deluding myself?
The thoughts rush in like that, one after the other,
disconnected and out of order. I wonder if I ought to pull
over until I calm down, but I can't seem to change course.
Finally, I get home, close the garage, and head straight up
to my room.
Dad has laid out my meds for me. I swallow my pills,
brush my teeth, and crawl into bed. I try to do the
whiteboard exercise, but fail before I get halfway through.
Somehow, I still manage to drift toward sleep. My last
thought is of Bec's hand on my knee, and the radiant heat
that spread out from it.
I have a mixture of strange and pleasant dreams.
CHAPTER 10
ON FRIDAY MORNING, MOM TAKES me to school early so
she can get to her parent-teacher conferences on time, and
when she drops me off, the campus seems empty. But as
I'm approaching the gates, movement on the athletic field
below catches my eye. I squint: it's Bec's brother, Erik,
standing on the otherwise deserted football field with Jim
Vickers.
At first, I'm not sure what they're doing. Vickers stands
close behind him with his hands on Erik's hips, almost like a
dance instructor. He adjusts Erik's stance, then positions his
arms, and I realize he's holding a football. At Vickers's nod,
Erik hurls the ball, and it sails about twenty yards before
falling back to the turf. Vickers says something, and Erik
tries again. This time the ball goes farther. They talk for a
moment, and then Erik reaches into his pocket and hands
Vickers something—a piece of gum or candy, maybe; it's
hard to tell at this distance. Then the two of them walk out
of sight behind the gym.
I stand there for a minute, wondering why the hell the
two of them were down there together. It looked like Vickers
was teaching him how to throw—but why? Bec did say that
Erik wanted to make the team, and I suppose it's possible
that Vickers is trying to help—but somehow, I don't buy
that. Not from him. Then again, Erik handed him something;
maybe it was a trade for the lesson. Either way, it's
probably none of my business—so I turn and make my way
across the quad.
Solo is waiting for me outside AP English. We haven't
spoken for days—not since he denied me at lunch. At the
sight of him, anger flares up in my chest.
“Hey,” he says.
I walk right past him and into Miss Crane's empty
classroom; he follows. Picking a desk in the middle of the
room, I slump down in the chair, drag my English textbook
out of my bag, and pretend to start reading.
Solo drops into the desk next to mine. “How long are you
planning to ignore me?”
I turn the page.
“A rough estimate is cool,” he continues. “I just want to
be able to plan my route to class so I can avoid the Medusa
death glare you keep giving me.”
“I don't know,” I say, my eyes still on my book. “How
long are you planning to pretend you don't know me when I
walk into the cafeteria?”
Solo lets out an exasperated sigh. “Oh, please. Don't be
such a drama queen.”
“I'm not being a drama queen. You completely ignored
me!”
“I did not ignore you. I gave you a cautionary glance,
indicating that that particular table would not be a good
choice for you.”
“A cautionary glance?”
“I was trying to help.”
I shake my head and look back down at my book.
“Oh, come on,” Solo says. “We all do what we have to do
to get along. Don't pretend you didn't stand at the top of
those stairs and look at every single table and think, ‘I don't
want to sit with those people. Ew, I don't want to sit with
those people, either. Oh, look, those people like sports!
They'll never understand my existential crisis.'”
I snap my book shut and glare at him. “That's easy for
you to say. No one messes with you. You don't look—like I
look.”
Solo bursts out of his desk.
“I look like this!” he says, gesturing first at his face, then
at his enormous frame. “You don't think I had a rough time
the first week I came here?”
I'm breathing hard and fast through my nose, like my dad
does when he's angry.
Solo points a thick finger at me. “You walk around here
like you're better than everyone. Like you're surrounded by
a bunch of shallow, bigoted assholes.”
I open my mouth to reply, but at that moment, the door
opens and two girls walk in. One of them is Sierra; I steel
myself for her glare, but she doesn't even look at me as she
takes a seat near the front. I'm relieved. I glance at Solo,
and we make a silent agreement: to be continued.
We don't speak on the way to Government, but I don't try
to avoid him, either; I just walk behind him. It's much easier
to navigate the halls in his wake.
And then I walk into Brennan's classroom and see the
word “QUIZ” on the whiteboard, and everything that
happened last night comes rushing back to me: My study
session with Bec. The awkward sexual tension. Finding my
blog listed on that LGBTQ website.
Just as the bell rings, Bec walks in, looking frazzled. Her
hair is tucked up into a newsboy cap, and I notice dark
circles under her eyes. As she slips into the desk in front of
mine, I want to say something to her—but what? Twice while
Brennan drones on about his grading system, I almost tap
her on the shoulder, but I pull my hand back at the last
minute.
Finally, Brennan starts handing out quizzes. When Bec
turns to pass them on, she mouths, “Good luck,” and then
smiles at me, causing my stomach to squirm pleasantly.
When the bell rings at the end of class, she's the first one
out of her seat. She drops her quiz on Brennan's desk and
gives me a weird little wave as she walks out of the
classroom. I consider going after her, but what would I say?
“Hey, thanks for the studying, want to make out later?” Just
the thought makes me blush.
In Precalc I pay precisely zero attention; my thoughts
have turned to the bigger issues plaguing me. Why did Bec
leave class in such a hurry—is she avoiding me? Is it
because of the weirdness during our study date, which may
or may not have been an actual date? And, as if this train of
thought isn't distracting enough, Solo's indictment keeps
replaying in my head.
“You walk around here like you're better than everyone.
Like you're surrounded by a bunch of shallow, bigoted
assholes.”
But the thing is—I am surrounded by shallow, bigoted
assholes. Within one minute of setting foot on this campus, I
was called “it.” Later that same day, my gender was called
into question in the middle of the cafeteria by half the Park
Hills football team. Even the anonymous visitor to my own
freaking blog called me “fag.” How does that fail to qualify
as being surrounded by shallow, bigoted assholes?
By the time French is over, I'm seething. I'm going to find
Solo, and we're going to have this out.
From my vantage point at the top of the stairs, I spot Solo
seated at his usual table. Cole is there, his long, stringy hair
pulled back into a ponytail, and so is the redheaded kid with
glasses who always seems to be hanging around.
Jim Vickers sits facing Solo, his bulging shoulders
stretching the fabric of a Park Hills Lions T-shirt. Sierra is
practically in his lap. Solo makes a comment, and Vickers
responds by throwing a ketchup-soaked french fry at him; it
splats on Solo's chest and sticks there. Sierra throws back
her head and laughs. Solo peels the fry off his shirt and
starts to dab at the red stain with a paper napkin. I don't
understand why he tolerates this treatment—I only know I
won't. I clench my jaw and start down the stairs, taking two
at a time.
And then I'm in the Gauntlet.
But this time I'm not trying to sneak past unseen; my
head is high and my shoulders are set. Solo looks up as if he
intends to say something to Vickers, but when he sees me,
his eyes go wide and he shakes his head. Sierra notices and
turns to look in my direction. When she recognizes me, she
smiles and says something to the group that I can't hear.
Ignoring them, I walk up to the table and face Solo—but
before I can address him, Vickers interrupts.
“Hey, Solo, it's your boyfriend.” He looks me up and
down. “Oh, sorry. Girlfriend?”
Vickers and Cole laugh, and Sierra leans toward me.
“Seriously, it's hard to tell,” she says. “Are you, like, an
effeminate dude, or just an ugly chick?”
More laughter. I feel my face turning red.
Vickers says, “What she's trying to ask is, are you a dyke
or are you a faggot?”
With heat rising in my cheeks, I ignore him and turn to
Solo. “Can I talk to you for a minute?”
But Solo is frozen, glaring at Vickers.
“That's not really it, babe,” Sierra says to Vickers, her
voice dripping with artificial sweetness. “What I want to
know is”—she turns toward me gestures at my crotch—“is
there, like, a dick in there? Or a vag?”
“Oh, damn!” Vickers says. Cole snorts.
It takes me a moment to react; I'm honestly surprised.
It's one thing to whisper about me to her friends, or to laugh
when her boyfriend taunts me—but I didn't expect Sierra to
be openly aggressive.
Slowly, I turn and look her in the eye. “That's none of
your business,” I say. “And, while I'm flattered by your
interest, you're really not my type.”
The redheaded kid howls with laughter and claps his
hands. Vickers smacks him on the arm, and he shuts up.
Sierra's face is white with rage. I feel a rush of triumph—
but underneath it, my adrenaline is surging.
Then, slowly, Vickers stands, and the group goes quiet.
“You want to repeat what you just said to my girlfriend,
faggot?”
The blood drains from my face. I take a step backward.
And then Solo is on his feet, his imposing frame towering
over the table. He reaches out a massive hand and claps
Vickers on the shoulder.
“Sit down, bro,” he says. “You're being an ass.”
Cole's eyes widen in surprise, and the redheaded kid
shrinks back in his seat. Vickers glares at Solo—and for a
moment, I think he's going to hit him. But after a few
seconds, Sierra reaches up and touches Vickers's arm, and
he shakes his head and sits down.
Solo blinks, grabs his backpack, and starts up the aisle
without further hesitation.
He doesn't say a word as I follow him through the
outdoor hallway and around the back of the auditorium. I
think he'll turn left and head toward the ramp, but instead,
he plunges down the slope toward the parking lot, and I
hurry after him.
His car is an ancient, peeling, silver Toyota hatchback.
The back window is plastered to the point of opacity with
decals; featured prominently among them are a vintage
KROQ FM bumper sticker and a Rebel Alliance logo.
“Lift up the door when you open it, or it'll fall off,” he
says.
“Where are we going?” I ask.
“We're ditching.”
CHAPTER 11
TEN MINUTES LATER WE'RE SPEEDING down the
freeway, Solo's hatchback shuddering like a porta-potty in a
5.0 magnitude earthquake.
“Where are we going?” I yell.
Yelling is necessary because the radiator in Solo's car is
shot, so he keeps the heater on full blast to prevent the car
from overheating, which means all four windows have to be
rolled down or else the car becomes a pizza oven.
He replies, but I think I mishear him, because it sounds
like he says, “The Reagan Years.”
But then we get off the freeway in downtown Fullerton,
and sure enough, there it is, lodged between a tiny sushi
restaurant and a hair salon: the Reagan Years. Solo pushes
open the door and we step inside.
It's an authentic eighties video arcade, packed wall-towall
with old-school stand-up games like Galaga and Dig
Dug and Donkey Kong. An old Oingo Boingo song blares
from tinny speakers, and two square TVs mounted overhead
show crackly, low-resolution MTV videos.
“This place is awesome,” I say.
“Wait till you see the back.”
We walk around a big partition, and there's a full-blown
fifties soda fountain, complete with checkered linoleum
flooring and red vinyl bar stools. The guy behind the counter
is even wearing one of those little paper hats.
“When I get pissed,” Solo says, “I play Ms. Pac-Man.”
He produces a roll of quarters from his backpack, and I
follow him to one of the sit-down table games. He squeezes
into a tiny chair, plugs two quarters into the machine, and
starts to play, yanking on the joystick as though his physical
strength might somehow make the cheesy 8-bit graphics
move faster. I watch him play for a while, noticing the way
he presses his lips together like a trumpet player when he
concentrates. It's kind of adorable.
“I'll get drinks,” I say.
“Chocolate malted,” he replies without looking up.
Something about the way he says it—even though we
haven't begun to work things out yet—gives me a sense of
relief, as though it's already understood that we're going to
move past this and be friends.
He's not paying attention to me, but I smile at him
anyway. “Coming right up.”
When I return with the drinks, Solo is just finishing a
game. He stands, pumps a fist, and extends both middle
fingers to the screen.
“Eat that, machine!” he yells. “I ain't afraid of no
ghosts!”
I set his malted on the game table and unscrew the cap
on my water bottle.
“You don't like malteds?” Solo says, leaning over to take
a long drink from his straw.
For a moment, I consider launching into the whole vegan
thing, but just the thought of it exhausts me, so I shake my
head instead.
Solo shrugs. “More for me. Did you order fries?”
I nod. “Can I ask you a question?”
“Shoot.”
“Do you really think I walk around acting like I'm better
than everyone else?”
Solo takes another long pull on his malted. “I think you
assume everyone is going to be your enemy. And by doing
that, you sort of make it come true.”
“So you think I made Jim Vickers call me ‘dyke' and
‘faggot'?”
Solo shakes his head. “No, of course you didn't make
him. You maybe invited him to.”
“Invited him to? Please tell me how I invited someone to
attack and humiliate me in front of the entire cafeteria.”
“See, this is what I'm talking about.”
“What?”
“I met you four days ago. Today, I abandoned my
teammates of three years to ditch school and take you to
the largest fifties soda fountain-slash-eighties video arcade
in the western hemisphere—but are you grateful? No. You
want to fight with me.”
I glare at him.
“You invite it,” he says, “because you dress in a way that
makes it nearly impossible for people to tell if you're a boy
or a girl.”
“It's none of their business,” I reply.
Solo sighs, then leans across the table. “How much do
you think I weigh?”
“What?”
“How much do you think I weigh?”
I shake my head. “I have no idea.”
“Look me in the eye and tell me you haven't guessed a
number.”
I hold his gaze but say nothing.
“I'll bet it was the first thing you thought about when you
saw me. Maybe the second, after trying to figure out what
race I am.”
I look down. Solo sits back.
“I can't dress like a skinny person,” he says. “Or a white
person. I am what I am. And people are going to react.”
“That's different,” I say.
“I'm sure it is,” Solo says. “But the point is, if I walked
around waiting for people to call me ‘fat boy' so that I could
get into a fight about it, I'd always be in a fight.” He leans
over and finishes his malted with one final slurp, then
pushes the glass away.
I look at him. He smiles, and his enormous cheeks sort of
fold up and hide his ears.
“People really messed with you your first week?” I ask.
“Yeah,” Solo says.
“But you're huge. You'd think they'd know better.”
Solo throws up his hands. “Right?”
“What did they say?”
“The usual. Remarks about my weight. Wetback jokes.”
“Long swim from Samoa,” I say.
Solo wags his finger at me. “Nothing pisses me off more
than an improperly applied racial epithet. Know your
minorities, people. They should make a pamphlet.”
I laugh.
Solo says, “My first day in PE, Coach Terrance pulled me
aside and asked if I was interested in being on the offensive
line. I didn't know what the hell he was talking about. Then
he asked me if I liked video games. I thought he was making
fun of me—but when I said yes, he told me to go buy
Madden NFL and play it for a week.”
“The football coach told you to buy a video game?”
“Crazy, right? But I did. And I totally fell in love with
football.”
“What is there to love about football?”
“Well, it's like . . . ,” he begins, sheepishly. “You've read
Harry Potter, right?”
“Seven times all the way through.”
“Okay. Well, I'm sitting there playing Madden on my
PlayStation, and it occurs to me that football is basically
Wizard's Chess.”
I cock my head.
“You call your play, you line up your guys, and you let
them fight. That's a down. Sometimes you gain ground,
sometimes you lose it. It's not just a bunch of sweaty jocks
out there banging into each other. You have to know your
opponent. You have to think ten moves ahead.”
The guy from the counter shows up with our fries.
“Enjoy,” he says, and then walks off.
I reach for a fry, and Solo continues.
“Anyway, when I came back the next week, Coach asked
me what I thought about Madden, and I just started
jabbering at him, telling him what I liked about the game.
You should have seen the smile on his face. You'd have
thought he just won the lottery.”
“So you joined the team.”
Solo shakes his head, frowning. When he replies, his
voice is low and flat. “What I did was go to the gym every
day for two weeks, and eat nothing but baked potatoes and
boiled chicken breasts. Then I went to the tryouts—and
practically got laughed off the field.”
“They laughed at you? And you still wanted to join the
team?”
“They knew me as the three-hundred-pound brown kid
with the furry Chewbacca backpack. I didn't fit in yet. I
hadn't passed the test.” He reaches for a handful of fries.
“And yes, I did still want to join the team. I wanted to play.”
“So what happened at tryouts?”
He answers with his mouth full. “I tackled Vickers in the
first drill. Laid him out flat.”
“Was he pissed?”
Solo shakes his head, swallows. “Nope. He was
impressed. Grudgingly, but still. That's how I earned my way
in. By proving myself on the field.” He looks at me. “That,
and I had to lose the Chewbacca backpack.”
“You did not.”
He shrugs. “It took a long time to lose the nickname
Chewie. But eventually, I became Solo. I like that a lot
better.”
“Wow,” I say. “So you gave up something you really
loved just to fit in with a bunch of guys who laughed at you
and called you fat.”
Solo folds his arms. “I didn't stop liking Star Wars, or
even talking about it. I just stopped wearing the furry
backpack to school. You'd have done the same thing.”
I look at Solo, then down at my lap. “I think this is where
the analogy breaks down for me.”
“Explain.”
“I can't just stop wearing a backpack.”
Solo raises his eyebrows. “Care to elaborate?”
I open my mouth, then shut it. Is this the person I want to
come out to? And, if he is, what will I say?
Solo leans in. “Look. I don't expect you to spill your guts
to me. Your business is your business. Dress how you want
to dress. Let people wonder. Fuck 'em.”
I smile.
Solo raises a finger. “But you've got to stop looking for a
fight every time someone makes a comment. High school
sucks for everyone.”
I feel my smile fade, and I sit back in the chair. “It kind of
feels like you're defending those guys.”
Solo shrugs. “There will always be guys like Jim Vickers.
But I'm not going to let them stop me from doing what I
want. And neither should you.”
CHAPTER 12
WE PULL OFF THE FREEWAY, and the wind rushing past
the window fades to a gentle breeze. It's the first cool
evening of fall, and the air on my face is exhilarating. It feels
good to be driving on a Friday night with the windows down
after ditching school for video games and french fries, and I
look over at Solo and feel a sudden rush of affection for him.
“Thanks for standing up for me today,” I say.
He nods. “You needed it.”
“So.” I glance out the window, then back at Solo. “What
happens on Monday?”
We turn onto my street.
“You could come sit with us,” he says.
“And get verbally abused by the entire football team? No
thanks.” I expect him to reply, maybe even get defensive,
but he just pulls up in front of my house and sets the
parking brake. And then we're quiet for a while, listening to
the irregular idle of the old car.
“Are you going to get it for ditching?” Solo asks.
“Probably. You?”
He shrugs. “Half the time my mom yells at me, I can't
understand what she's saying. Plus, I have a really good
shame face.” He tilts his head toward me and his massive
cheeks fall forward. He looks like an enormous sad bulldog.
“That is a really good shame face.”
I glance out the window at my house; if the attendance
office called my parents, I'm probably in for a talk when
they get home. In the meantime, I feel . . . good. Maybe for
the first time since I started at Park Hills.
After a moment, I get out of the car.
“Have a good weekend,” I say, carefully closing the
rickety door.
Solo bows. “May the Force be with you.”
My parents won't be home for another hour and a half, so I
sequester myself in my room, fire up my laptop, and log in
to Bloglr. When my dash appears, I lean back in my chair
and stare at the numbers on the screen: MESSAGES: 27
FOLLOWERS: 568
Five hundred sixty-eight followers? Last time I checked, it
was fifty something—and it's been less than a week! I click
Refresh, but the numbers remain the same. How did I gain
so many followers so quickly?
I start clicking on their avatars and browsing through
their profiles, paying particular attention to the connections
we have in common. When I notice that the first dozen or so
also follow QueerAlliance's Bloglr feed, things start to make
sense. QueerAlliance is a popular site; it probably gets
thousands of hits every day. All these people must have
found me because I was featured in the “What's New”
section on the home page.
I run my fingers through my hair. These five hundred new
followers—these strangers—have read my most personal
thoughts. My most embarrassing feelings. My secrets. All at
once, I feel naked. I know it's practically impossible . . . but
what if someone reads this and knows it's me? I glance at
the window to make sure my curtains are closed. They are.
Then a nervous laugh escapes me, and I shake my head; I'm
just being paranoid. Bloglr is anonymous. There's nothing
anyone could use to connect Alix the blogger with Riley the
congressman's kid. I let out a long breath, and then I scroll
through the comments.
People appear to actually like what I've shared. More
than that, they seem to take comfort or inspiration from it,
and that makes me feel . . . I don't know. Like I matter. Like
maybe I'm not so alone after all.
I click on Messages and start reading.
Anonymous: Love ur blog! XD
yell0wbedwetter: Moar pleez!
Anonymous: OMG. Thank. U. So. Much. I came out
to my mom over the weekend & she cried & couldn't
understand. Kept asking if I was trans, and I couldn't
explain. After I read ur post I told her your line “it's not
a switch it's a dial.” I think she finally got it! U have no
idea. Thank u!!!!
MiMi_Q: Oh, Alix, I don't envy where you are, but
you will make it. You are an inspiration. Keep writing.
I scroll down. There are more messages like the ones
above. I start replying, thanking the senders, and welcoming
my new followers. And then, after about twenty minutes, I
come to a more substantial message, and I start to read:
Anonymous: Hi Alix. I totally started crying when I read ur
story about being in the toy store with ur dad. That is what
I've been feeling my whole life. Exactly that. Anyway thank
u so much. I want to come out to my sister but I don't know
what to say. Any advice?
I reread the message. My heart physically aches at the
thought that something I wrote helped this stranger figure
out what they're going through. I start to type out a reply,
tentatively at first, but with increasing velocity. Soon, my
hands are flying over the keyboard; I'm surprised how much
I have to say.
And then, just as I'm about to click Post, I hesitate.
Because the message is anonymous, I can't reply privately;
anyone who follows my blog will be able see this. I reread
what I've written. It all sounds . . . wrong. False. Arrogant.
Who am I to give this person advice? For one thing, I don't
know anything about coming out. I'm still in the closet
myself. How am I remotely qualified to advise this stranger
on something so big?
I delete my reply and type a new one.
Alix: Hi, Anonymous. I wish I could give you advice,
but the truth is, I'm just a big fat coward. The only
person I've come out to is my therapist, who is oathbound
not to judge me and required by law to keep
my secrets. In my own searching, I've come across a
couple sites that might help: try
Bloglr.com/genderbender, and also QueerAlliance.org.
Sorry I couldn't be more helpful.
I reread my response, consider deleting it again, and
then finally click Post. I sit back in my chair and frown at
screen. I feel unsatisfied, like I just brushed someone off. I
find myself second-guessing myself, wishing I had shared
my original response after all.
My thoughts are interrupted by the sound of the garage
door.
My parents are home.
They're waiting for me in the living room when I come
downstairs. My mother is stationed on the long sofa, her
face tight with worry, her arms and legs crossed as though
she's trying to tie her whole body in a knot. Dad paces in
front of the coffee table, stopping when I enter.
“Riley,” he says. “We need to talk to you. Sit down.”
His voice is even, but I can tell by the set of his jaw that
he's really angry. I approach and sit in a chair facing them.
“We got a call from school,” Dad says. “They said you
weren't in class after lunch.”
I nod.
“You want to tell us where you were?”
“I ditched with a friend. We went to Fullerton.”
“Were you drinking?” my mother asks.
“What? No. I had water. We were just talking.”
Dad moves toward me. “Let me smell your breath.”
And just like that, we backslide. The trust I've worked so
hard to rebuild over the last month is gone in one afternoon.
And the stupid part is, I was never even into drinking—it
was just that one time. The time. But even after six weeks in
Pineview, they've never forgiven me, and they've never
forgotten.
Dad leans forward, and I exhale in his face. He nods,
satisfied, and moves to sit next to my mother.
“I'm sorry,” I say. “I know I shouldn't have ditched. But I
needed to get out of there.”
“We're going to need more of an explanation than that,”
Dad says.
I look down at my lap. “I was having a bad day.”
Dad exhales through his nose. “You can't walk out of
school just because you're ‘having a bad day.' You have to
—”
But Mom lays a hand on his knee to cut him off. “Tell us
what happened, honey.”
I think about Vickers demanding to know whether I was a
dyke or a faggot, but I can't tell them that. So, I say, “Some
kids were making me fun of me.”
Dad throws up his hands. “And?” His face is the color of
beets, and I feel myself shrink from him. At my reaction, he
folds his hands and softens his voice. “Riley, listen. Words
can hurt. I get it. Jesus, right now, there are consultants
being paid thousands of dollars to write bad things about
me. But you can't just walk out. You have to keep your chin
up.”
I feel tears stinging my eyes, and I clench my jaw. I don't
want to cry. I don't want to break down in front of them.
“What did they say to you?” Mom asks.
I shift in my seat. I have to tell them something. “They
were making fun of the way I dress.”
Dad shakes his head and looks up at the ceiling. Mom
reaches out to put a hand on his knee again, then thinks
better of it and folds her hands in her lap. “We're just
concerned,” she says. “You spend all your time shut up in
your room on your computer. And . . .” She looks me up and
down, and I just know she's about to make a comment
about my clothes. “When you were at Immaculate Heart, we
thought . . .” She glances at Dad. “I mean, we thought you
were just rebelling against all that structure. The uniform,
and the strict rules, and everything.”
“But now we don't know what it is,” Dad says.
I hear Doctor Ann's voice in my head, telling me to take a
slow, deep breath. I try, but find that I can't; my chest is too
tight. My fingertips are beginning to tingle.
Mom picks nervously at her cuticles. “You know,” she
says, “not having a uniform can be really liberating. It's a
great opportunity to wear what you want. To stand out from
the crowd.”
I want to scream: That's exactly what I don't want to do.
Dad gets up, thrusts his hands into his pockets, and
starts pacing again. “We're not dinosaurs, Riley. We
remember what high school is like.”
He has no idea what it's like.
“And I know you think this is superficial,” he says, “but
the fact is: appearance matters. People do judge books by
their covers; it's human nature. They react to the way you
look before they hear a single word that comes out of your
mouth.”
I don't respond. The tingling spreads to my face.
“If you don't like the outfits I bought you,” Mom says,
“we could go shopping together. We could make a day out of
it.” She smiles, but it withers when she sees the look on my
face.
“You think I wouldn't rather lounge around in sweats all
day?” Dad says. “Believe me, I would. But you have to dress
for the life you want. Is this how you want to live?” He stops,
pulls a hand out of his pocket, and makes a dismissive
gesture at me. “Is this who you are?”
My vision starts to tunnel. I grip the arm of the chair and
stand.
“I need to go lie down,” I say. My voice sounds distant.
“We're not through talking.”
“I can't—I can't talk about this.”
“You can, and you will.”
“Riley—” Mom begins, but now it's Dad who interrupts.
“Let me handle this, Sharon.” He turns toward me. “Don't
pretend we're the bad guys here. You want to dress this
way? Fine. But don't use other people's reactions as an
excuse to walk out on your obligations.” He holds up a
finger. “First, you cancel last-minute on a very important
fund-raiser. And we supported you, because we want you to
have friends. We really do. But the very next day, you turn
around and ditch class?”
“Please stop,” I say.
“Sean—” Mom says, but Dad cuts her off.
“I'm trying to run a very public campaign about
education reform. You don't think the media will hear about
it if my kid starts racking up truancies? How do you think
this reflects on me?”
And then, it's as though a dam breaks in my head, and
the tingling floods through me. I feel like I'm in someone
else's body. My father is still talking, gesturing emphatically,
but his voice and his movements seem far away.
“Stop,” I say, covering my ears with my tingling hands,
holding my head so it doesn't fall apart. My voice sounds
like it's coming from someone else. Someone talking in
another room. “Stop talking,” I say, more loudly. “Just—
please, shut up.”
“Do not speak to me—”
“SHUT UP!” I scream.
Mom's face goes white. My father's mouth falls open, and
suddenly he looks like a little boy. I can't stand to look at
him.
I feel my body turn and move toward the stairs. And then
I'm in my room, and I feel the comforter on my face, and the
tingling is everywhere. I bury my face in the pillow, and I
scream.
And I scream.
When I come back to myself, I'm lying on my side in bed,
facing the wall. I can hear my parents talking softly behind
me. I start to roll over. Mom senses me moving and lifts the
cold cloth from my neck.
“It's okay, honey,” she says. I blink up at her.
Dad moves to stand in the doorway. “You have your
regular appointment with Doctor Ann tomorrow.” He's still
angry, but the heat is gone from his voice. “In the
meantime, you're grounded.” He holds up my laptop.
I want to yell and punch the wall. I want to scream again,
and say I'm sorry, and cry and push my mother away. I want
to do all these things, but instead, I roll over and press my
face into the comforter. After a moment, I hear the door
close.
CHAPTER 13
THERE ISN'T EVEN A COUCH in Doctor Ann's office; just a
big Pottery Barn desk and two ugly leather armchairs that
always make me feel like I'm sitting on a dead cow.
Doctor Ann sits across from me wearing a blue dress, one
leg crossed elegantly over the other. She doesn't use a
notebook or anything during our sessions, which somehow
makes me feel even more scrutinized, because her eyes
never leave me. But all I can think about as I stare at the
pale-green wallpaper is my dad's blank look when I
screamed at him to shut up, and my mother shrinking into
the couch.
“What's going on over there?” Doctor Ann asks. “Are you
replaying the confrontation from last night?”
I stare at her. “How did you know?”
Doctor Ann nods toward the wall of diplomas behind her
desk. “I have very expensive degrees,” she says.
I laugh, then run a hand through my hair. “I didn't mean
to yell at them. It was like . . . someone else was using my
mouth to do the yelling.”
She nods.
“My face was doing the tingling thing, and I couldn't
breathe.”
“Has that been happening a lot?”
“I guess. I mean, it's been worse since I started school.”
“Are you taking your meds?”
I scrub at the carpet with one foot. “Yeah. Dad's doling
them out.”
Doctor Ann steeples her hands and touches her two
index fingers to her lips. “Why don't you tell me something
good that happened this week?”
“Something good?”
“Yes.”
I think for a minute, and then I just start to babble. I
share about meeting Solo and our subsequent fight. I
describe my fluctuation episode in the hall, my panic attack
the next day, and finally conquering the Gauntlet. I tell her
about ditching the fund-raiser to study with Bec, and how I
thought there was sexual tension, but it was probably all in
my head. I tell her about going to the Reagan Years with
Solo and making up. When I finally glance at the clock
above the door, I've been talking for almost thirty minutes
straight, so I stop. Doctor Ann watches me, waiting to see if
I'll continue. I don't.
“Have you thought any more about starting that journal
blog I suggested?”
“Oh yeah,” I say. “I almost forgot.” And I fill her in on
everything—from my first post to the anonymous “your a
fag” commenter, to getting five hundred followers in a
week.
“Wow,” she says, and then actually laughs out loud.
“Are you laughing at me?”
Doctor Ann recovers, shakes her head. “No. Psychiatrists
aren't permitted to laugh at our patients.” She smiles. “I'm
glad you started the blog. I think other teenagers will
benefit from your insight.”
I let out a breath I didn't realize I'd been holding; I guess
I wanted her validation—not just for the blog, but for the
way I've been thinking and feeling.
Doctor Ann glances at her watch, and I sit up straighter.
We're just getting started; I'm not ready to go yet.
“We haven't talked about my dysphoria,” I say.
“Would you like to talk about your dysphoria?”
“Not really.”
“Okay,” she says.
“Just okay?”
Doctor Ann frowns. “I get the impression you want
something from me. Do you want to tell me what it is?”
I open my mouth, then close it. Then I say, “I don't know.
I feel like you listen, but you don't do anything to fix what's
wrong with me.”
“Well, okay,” she says, “but I don't think there's anything
wrong with you.”
“Then why am I here?”
“Why do you think you're here?”
“It's really fucking annoying when you do that,” I snap.
Doctor Ann exhales heavily, then nods.
“I'm sorry,” I say.
“Riley, I don't know what you want me to do for you.”
I lean forward. “I want you to fix my anxiety. Make me
feel like it's okay to be who I am. Help me figure out how to
. . . how to tell my parents in a way that will make them
okay with it.”
Doctor Ann folds her arms. “That's a lot.”
I throw up my hands.
“All right,” she says. “Let's start with the anxiety.”
“Okay.”
“So, first, I want you to know that everybody experiences
some level of anxiety. It's a normal human response to
stress. It's like your body's smoke alarm. If there's a fire,
you want to know so you can put it out or call 9-1-1, right?”
I shrug. “I guess. But it feels like my alarm is going off all
the time.”
Doctor Ann nods. “Some people's systems are more
sensitive than others'. For you, maybe all it takes is burning
a piece of toast, and your alarm thinks the house is on fire.”
I nod.
“But there's no doubt you're experiencing a lot of stress.
You just changed schools. Your dad is running for office.
That's enough to give anybody a little anxiety. But when you
add the bullying at school, and the gender dysphoria you're
experiencing, it can be overwhelming. And if we take your
sensitivity into consideration, it's not surprising that you're
having more frequent, intense episodes.”
I sit back. I hadn't thought of it like that. And she's right
—it is overwhelming.
“So how do I cope with it?” I say.
“You are coping. You're taking meds. You're going out
with friends. Standing up for yourself. Writing about it.
Screaming at your parents.”
“And that's normal?”
“For a teenager in your situation? I'd say so. It's better
than”—she pauses, as if catching herself before saying the
wrong thing—“doing something extreme.”
I fold my arms. “You mean like washing down a dozen
Xanax with a bottle of whiskey?”
Doctor Ann's mouth drops open slightly, but then she
recovers. “Yes,” she says. “It's much better than that.” She
looks like she's waiting for me to say something more about
it. When I don't, she leans forward in her chair and speaks
again, more softly this time. “As for wondering if it's okay to
be who you are—that's not a symptom of mental illness.
That's a symptom of being a person.”
“What about my parents?”
“Are you ready to tell them?”
“No. But I'm kind of afraid I will. Like, in a moment of
anger.”
“Do you know what you want to say?”
“No. Hell no.”
“All right. Well, let's make an agreement. You won't tell
them until we have a chance to talk about it first. How about
that?”
“Okay,” I say. And instantly, I feel a weight lifted. I put my
face in my hands, and my shoulders start to shake. I hear
Doctor Ann pull a tissue out of the box on her side table,
and I take it from her, blow my nose, and look up.
“I feel like you should give me some deep advice or
something.”
“About what?”
“Like, I don't know, about life. Or how I'm supposed to
deal with all this.”
Doctor Ann scrunches up her face in concentration. She's
quiet for so long that I wonder if she's forgotten I'm there.
Then, finally, she speaks.
“Find a cause.”
“Find a cause? What does that mean?”
“Take a stand for someone other than yourself.”
“You mean, like, demonstrate for animal rights or
something?” I squirm on the leather chair.
Doctor Ann raises an eyebrow. “If that appeals to you.”
“How will that help?”
“Maybe it will get you out of your head. Get you to stop
thinking about you so much. Get you engaged with other
people.”
Stop thinking about me so much? What's that supposed
to mean? I want to say it out loud, to snap at her; but
instead, I just sort of deflate in the chair. She's probably
right—she usually is—but the last thing I want to do right
now is engage with other people.
“Find a cause. That's your deep advice?”
She shrugs. “Take it or leave it.”
CHAPTER 14
NEW POST: REBEL REBEL (WITHOUT A CAUSE)
OCTOBER 7, 10:22 PM
Forgive me, Bloglr, for I have sinned. It has been
two whole days since my last post.
Thank you for your kind messages and comments.
Also, thank you to all my new followers. I know that
most of you probably found me through
QueerAlliance, so thanks to them for featuring me on
their site. I honestly don't know what I did to deserve
that, but I'll try to live up to the honor.
NOW PLAYING: “Rebel Rebel” by David Bowie
But now, dear readers, I need your help. The next
phase of my therapy includes an assignment: I MUST
FIND A CAUSE. Something that will get me out of my
own head. Stop me from thinking about me so much.
So here are my ideas, in no particular order:
Animal rights (vegan activism, protests, and stuff)
Community Service (the helping-old-people kind,
not the picking-up-trash-in-an-orange-vest kind)
Antibullying club (if they have one at my school)
Aaaand that's all I have. Seriously, I need your help
on this. Badly. Please send me ideas.
#genderfluid #animalrights #vegan #anxiety
#recovery
I click Post, then start sorting through my inbox. Mostly,
I've received nice messages from new followers, thanking
me for sharing, or inviting me to check out their blogs.
There are a few negative anons, but none of them are quite
as rude as “your a fag,” and I delete them quickly. The good
messages outnumber the bad by at least five to one. After
about half an hour, I come to a particularly interesting, but
utterly inappropriate, question, and I decide to issue
another smackdown à la my apostrophe post.
Anonymous: Okay, so sometimes u feel like a boy,
and sometimes u feel like a girl. How do u have sex?
Alix: Well, I haven't actually had sex yet, so
technically I'm not qualified to answer. And, while I
understand you're curious, you need to know that
“How do you have sex?” is a cataclysmically impolite
question. Like, would you ask your cismale1 friend
how he has sex:
You: Yo, Bif, you have a penis. How do you have sex?
Bif: What, you want me to describe it?
You: Yes, please.
Bif: Why?
You: I have a nearly sociopathic disregard for both
your privacy and your feelings.
Bif: Wow, that's . . . really honest. I am strangely
compelled to grant your request.
You: Please provide graphic anatomical detail. Visual
aids would help. Perhaps a series of animated gifs.
Bif: Sounds like a lot of work. How about I just use a
vulgar euphemism instead?
You: Sold.
Bif: Okay. The airplane lands in the hangar, and then it
takes off again. And then it lands again. And then it
takes off again. . . .
You: This is a terrible metaphor. It sounds like you're
describing feeding a baby.
Bif: I did say it would be a vulgar euphemism.
You: Wow. I am filled with regret for having pursued
this uncouth line of inquiry.
Bif: I forgive you. Here, I have made for you an
elaborate stop-motion film using Play-Doh and the
camera on my phone. This should explain everything.
You: This is very informative. I hope you are
nominated for an Oscar.
1 Footnote: For those of you joining us from outside
the LGBTQ bubble: “cis” (pronounced like the “sis” in
“sister”) is sort of like the opposite of “trans.” More
specifically, it means you identify as the gender you
were assigned at birth. To put it crudely, cismale =
you have a penis and you feel like a boy. Cisfemale =
you have a vagina and you feel like a girl. Okay, that's
a gross oversimplification, but it's the best I can do on
short notice. Feel free to Google it. /Public Service
Announcement
I sort through a few more messages, and then, just as I'm
clicking Post on my final answer of the night, the envelope
icon turns red again.
Anonymous: Hi Alix. I hope you answer this. I'm
writing from my phone at the train station right now. I
don't know where else to go. I don't even know how to
start so I'll just say it. I came out to my parents about
2 hours ago that I'm a trans girl. After I told them, my
mom sort of shrank back and put a hand over her
mouth and didn't say anything. My dad started yelling
at me. He said I'm not his son. I told him I wish I could
be his daughter instead. And then he hit me. And I
left. And now I keep staring at the train tracks and
thinking I should just throw myself down there. Please
reply.
I let out a long, slow breath. This one is not a joke; it's
serious. And I don't feel qualified to respond to something
this intense—maybe even life-or-death—but at the same
time . . . she reached out to me, and she's desperate. I
check the time stamp. The message was sent less than
three minutes ago; if I'm going to reply, I should do it now.
But what do I even say? Hands shaking, I start typing.
Alix: First off, please don't kill yourself. I can't
imagine how much pain you're in . . . but don't,
please. Go here, if you want to: translifeline.org.
They're way better at this than I am—I'm just a kid on
the internet.
I consider just clicking Post; but it doesn't seem like
enough. I take a deep breath. What would I want to hear?
After staring at the screen for a minute, I put my fingers
back on the keys and continue.
I am so sorry your parents reacted that way. And I
know this might not make it hurt less, but I have to
say thank you for being so brave. You have so much
guts to be so honest like that. To say that to your dad.
You're probably the bravest person I've ever heard of.
If I were with you at the train station right now, I
would hug you until you couldn't breathe, and then we
would go to the little store and buy root beer and Red
Vines, and bite off the ends and use them as straws to
drink the root beer while we waited for the train. And
then we'd get on and go somewhere very, very far
away, like Pennsylvania or Prague. And we would find
people like us and live in an apartment and make art
and sell it and have a garden on the roof and just be
happy.
But I know we can't do that. So I'll just keep writing
until I come up with something real that might help.
You have to know that there is NOTHING wrong
with you. Your parents' reactions have zero to do with
you, and everything to do with them. For you, coming
out is about finally understanding who you are, and
then admitting it to the people who are most
important to you. But for your parents, maybe they
see it as this big, shocking change. And they aren't
equipped to handle it. To them, it's like you suddenly
made this huge choice they don't understand.
I know what you're thinking: it's not a choice! It's
how you were born. It's who you are. You're not
making some arbitrary decision to make your life and
theirs more difficult—you're just finally accepting who
you already are.
But the thing is, you did make a choice: you chose
to COME OUT.
You know what's messed up? People tolerate
secrecy. I see it in my life. It's like, it's okay to have
gay feelings or trans feelings or gender fluid feelings—
as long as you keep them inside. As long as you don't
“act” on them. Whatever that means. People don't
condemn you for being trans. They condemn you for
embracing it.
So. See it from your parents' point of view for a
second: They're sitting there on the couch, and you
come downstairs, and in less than five minutes you
turn their world completely upside down. And they
didn't have a chance to prepare, so all their bad and
ugly feelings rise to the surface. All the worst parts of
them just flood out and fill the room and drown your
heart.
And the thing is, they probably already wish they
could take it all back.
So, anonymous, please don't throw yourself onto
that track. Because this is the worst part, right here,
right now. If you can just get past this part, it gets
better.
If you're reading this, and you still have battery
and signal, go to QueerAlliance.org. I just checked,
and they have contact info for shelters and safe
houses in almost every major city. There's a hotline
you can call. They can help.
We're with you.
I click Post and sit back in my chair. I'm worried that I've
said the wrong things, or that I'm too late, and that the
anonymous sender has already done something drastic. I
wish I had said more. I wish I had been cleverer, more
compassionate.
Suddenly tired and out of things to say, I reach for the
keyboard to log off. Just then, the envelope icon blinks red
again. I click it; there's only one message. It reads:
Anonymous: go back where u came from dyke
r school doesn't need another faggot
CHAPTER 15
I SIT COMPLETELY STILL AND stare at the screen.
It's like someone slapped me in the face. My pulse
doubles. I read the message again.
I don't know what to do.
I look up stupidly at the closed door to my room, as
though my father might walk in and tell me what to do.
Do I delete the message? Do I report it to someone?
I sit for a moment, waiting for the shock to turn into
anger; but instead, a cold fear spreads through me, like ice
water in my veins. I sit there, staring at the screen, and then
I remember that low, mocking voice:
What she's trying to ask is, are you a dyke or are you a
faggot?
Almost the exact words Jim Vickers used two days ago.
I stand and cross to my window to make sure it's locked;
it is. I sit back down at the computer.
Could Vickers have found my blog? Has he somehow
connected Alix from Bloglr with Solo's friend from school?
Does he know who I am?
My heart palpitates once, twice. If Vickers knew, he could
tell everyone. He could post it online, send out a mass
email. Everyone would know about me. I couldn't go back to
school, not after that. And then—someone could connect
the dots to my father. My congressman father. His campaign
. . . it would be over. His career would be ruined.
Oh God.
I run back to my computer, my heart pounding in my
throat. I click Settings and scroll down to “delete user
account.” I click the link. A box pops up:
Are you sure you want to delete your account?
My finger hovers over the trackpad. All I have to do is
click OK, and Vickers won't be able to expose me. He can
tell people about me, sure, but it will be his word against
mine.
But if I do it, I'll be giving up the only thing that seems to
relieve my anxiety. And on top of that, I'll lose my new
friends, all 624 of them. I already hide from my parents,
from my classmates—even from Bec and Solo. This blog is
the truest part of me. If I delete it, if I erase any record of
who I am, what will be left?
I close my eyes, take three slow breaths, and click
Cancel. I go back to the inbox screen and open the message
one more time.
go back where u came from dyke
r school doesn't need another faggot
Okay. So the sender used “dyke” and “faggot,” the same
words Vickers called me in the cafeteria. But how common
are those words? They get thrown around every day, in and
outside of high school, and certainly all over the internet.
Hell, that first anonymous sender called me “fag.” There's
nothing here that points specifically to Vickers.
And the second line: “r school doesn't need another
faggot.” Not “Park Hills High,” but “r school.” Anyone could
have sent this message; it's just an empty threat.
Anonymous hate. My panic starts to subside.
I consider replying—and then, almost without deciding to,
I delete the message.
I close my laptop and lie back on my bed, but my mind
won't shut down. I think about what Solo said, about how I
walk around assuming everyone is a bigoted asshole. I try to
reconcile his live-and-let-live attitude with the message I
just received. I can't.
And then I think about the girl at the train station. About
how scary it must have been to tell her parents the truth
right to their faces, and how crushed she must have felt
when they rejected her. To be cast out by your own parents.
And I think about her now, wondering if she read my reply.
Wondering whether she's still sitting on that bench, or if
she's already thrown herself onto the tracks.
I get very little sleep, and when I walk into school Monday
morning, I'm completely exhausted. It's only my second
week at Park Hills High, but it already feels like my second
year.
I'm feeling super guyish, so I didn't really bother to put
myself together this morning. I'm wearing a baggy T-shirt
and the same jeans I wore all weekend—but I did take the
time to tease the top of my hair into a fauxhawk.
Solo comments on my scruffy appearance via text, and I
reply with a stealthily taken phone pic of my middle finger.
When Miss Crane isn't looking, Solo retaliates by bouncing a
Starburst off the side of my head.
Bec is absent from Government—again.
The lunch bell rings, and I start across the quad toward
the cafeteria. I'm still a little uncertain of where I stand with
Solo; sure, he invited me to sit with him, but I think he knew
I would refuse. Regardless, I've decided to let it be, for now.
To “pick my battles,” as Mom would say.
I descend the stairs and enter the Gauntlet without
hesitation. As I approach the football table, I brace myself
for an onslaught—but it never comes. Solo gives me a curt
nod as I pass, but nobody says a word to me.
And then, just as I'm about to declare victory, Jim Vickers
looks up and makes eye contact with me. He smiles, but it
doesn't touch his eyes. All at once, the fear from last night—
that somehow he knows about my blog, that he'll expose
me—comes rushing back, and I look down and walk faster.
Moments later I'm through the Gauntlet and standing in
the lunch line. I try to clear my mind, but that cold smile
seems to be burned into the backs of my eyelids. Did I see a
deeper meaning behind it? An echo of the anonymous hate
message from last night? Or was it just my imagination?
I'm disappointed but unsurprised to find the ramp empty;
Bec must be traveling with her dad again. I figure I could eat
here alone, or see if Miss Crane is still in her room—but then
I look down at my dry cafeteria burrito and decide that I'm
just not that hungry. Solo is with his people, Bec is with her
dad, and I'm alone on this stupid ramp. By myself. Thinking
about being alone by myself.
And for the first time I can remember, I'm actually
disgusted by my own self-pity. I hear Doctor Ann's voice in
my head, telling me to stop thinking about me so much. To
get engaged with other people. To find a cause. And she's
right; I really should do something. Reluctantly, I stuff the
burrito into my bag and head up toward the activities office.
I'm approaching the counter when the pretty blond girl
behind it looks up and says, “Bonjour, Riley.”
I stare at her for a minute, caught off guard by the
greeting, until I recognize her: it's Casey Reese, the girl who
sits in front of me in French. At my lack of response, her
smile fades.
“Sorry,” she replies. “Need to work on my accent.”
“No,” I say, too quickly. “No. It's really good.”
Casey's smile returns at full wattage. “I love your hair,”
she says, absently reaching up to run her fingers through
her own. “How do you make it do that?”
“Oh, I don't know. I just, like, brush it up, sort of, with my
hand.” I demonstrate.
She cocks her head. “You don't use hair spray or
anything?”
I shrug. “My hair is naturally sticky-uppy. Plus, it's shorter
than yours.”
She nods. I think she'll say something else, drive the
conversation deeper, but she just sort of spaces out. Finally,
I clear my throat. “Um, do you have, like, a list of clubs on
campus?”
“Oh. Sure!” She retrieves a green three-ring binder from
her desk and sets it in front of me. “They're all in here. Let
me know if you need anything else.” She smiles again, then
crosses back to her desk and starts sorting through a pile of
paperwork.
I stand there at the counter, flipping through club flyers
and sign-up sheets. There's a young investors society, an
academic decathlon team, and a chapter of the Orange
County Teen Republicans Network. I could join the
Fellowship of Christian Athletes (if I were an athlete, and if
they take deeply conflicted Catholics), but I'm really looking
for something more service-oriented. Now I'm halfway
through the binder, and what little hope I had is dwindling
fast. There's no animal rights club, no vegan teens
association, no antibullying coalition. I don't really expect to
find a transgender group—and when I do finally come cross
the Park Hills Gay-Straight Alliance, I'm unsurprised to see
only two names on the sign-up sheet, both dated three
years ago.
I'm about to slam the binder shut and walk out of the
office when a pink flyer catches my eye.
JOIN “P.A.L.S!”
PEER ACADEMIC ASSISTANCE AT LUNCH!
MONDAYS IN THE LIBRARY
I read it twice, rolling my eyes at the cheesy name. Peer
tutoring isn't exciting or political, but it does meet Doctor
Ann's requirement of “getting engaged with other people.”
Reluctantly, I close the binder, say au revoir to Casey, and
set off for the library.
I spot Sierra Wells as soon as I walk through the front door.
She's sitting at one of the long tables next to the entrance,
talking to a younger girl who's stuffing her books into a red
backpack. I'm about to turn around and walk out—but then
the girl mumbles something, and Sierra replies in a
surprisingly gentle tone, “I know, receive still trips me up,
too. Just remember ‘it's better to give than to receive.' Both
words end in I-V-E .” And then her face splits in a wide,
genuine smile—this hardly looks or sounds like the same
sneering girl who asked if I was a dude or a chick. I pause,
half turned toward the door. The younger girl stands, says
good-bye to Sierra, and walks past me out the door.
That's when Sierra looks up and sees me—and her smile
dissolves.
“Oh,” she says. The gentleness is gone from her tone.
“Here.” She reaches into her book bag and extracts a small
package wrapped in purple tissue paper. She holds it out to
me, and I stare at it. What could she possibly want to give
me?
“Your mom ordered these,” Sierra says, thrusting the
package at me.
“Oh, right. The essential oils. Thanks,” I say, taking it.
“Yeah,” she replies, then closes her planner and starts
packing her things. She's wearing a long-sleeved sweater,
but as she reaches down to put her binder away, her sleeve
slides up, exposing a scab-like patch of discolored skin on
her forearm. I've seen marks like this before, on one of the
other patients at Pineview. His were from obsessive
scratching; it was the way he dealt with stress. I wonder
what Sierra's are from.
I feel a sudden wave of sympathy for her—and I speak
without really meaning to. “I'm sorry about the other day,” I
say. “At my house.” Sierra looks up at me, surprised. I'm
surprised, too, but I keep talking. “I hate it when my parents
use me like a prop.”
Sierra's face takes on a green tinge, and she looks away.
“Yeah, well,” she says, shouldering her bag, “whatever.” She
stands, pushes in her chair, and walks out.
I watch her leave, feeling stupid for even trying to talk to
her. After the way she treated me, what made me think I
could change her mind? And why would I bother? I guess it's
like Dad says: You only get one chance at a first impression.
When I get home, I find a note from my mom explaining that
she and Dad will be out late at some dinner event. I reheat
the tofu rice dish she left me and eat it standing in the
kitchen.
I consider checking my blog, but decide against it. I have
a bad feeling about the trans girl from last night—the one
who wrote to me from the train station. I'm afraid of what
she might say if she replies. What if she calls me out? Like,
what gives me the right to give her advice? What
experience do I have that could possibly compare to what
she's going through?
Or worse, what if something happened, and she hasn't
replied at all?
On Tuesday, Mr. Hibbard informs the class that we have a
Precalc test on Thursday. It's my least favorite subject, and I
haven't done any of the homework. The news sort of derails
my day, and I decide I'm definitely not up for lunch in the
cafeteria from hell. I intercept Solo as he's walking out of
Algebra and persuade him to sneak off campus with me.
Since Bec wasn't in Government, I hold out little hope
that she'll turn up at the ramp, but I convince Solo to walk
past it on the way to the parking lot anyway. She's not
there.
On the way to Shock-o-Tacos, I pick Solo's brain for
volunteering ideas.
“My church does a potluck soup kitchen on the first
Sunday of every month,” Solo says, shrugging. “Or maybe
you could pass out juice at the High School Football
Association blood drive.” I could probably get my mom to
make a dish for the potluck, but that doesn't qualify as me
doing something. And the thought of waiting on a room full
of Solo's bleeding teammates makes me queasy; I'll have to
keep looking.
That night, I sit down at my desk, thinking I'll have the
courage to check Bloglr—but when I get to the log-in screen,
I stop. Between Mr. Hibbard's looming test and my failed
attempts to “find a cause,” the buzz of anxiety has been
pretty much constant for the last few days—and the thought
of getting another hate message like “go back where u
came from dyke” amplifies it even more.
The trans girl from the train station crosses my mind, too
—but I push the thought away. I'm already a month behind; I
need to study. So I close my laptop and open my Precalc
book.
On Wednesday, Bec is absent from Government again, and
I'm beginning to think she's not coming back. I shoot her a
text, but I get no reply. Still, I'm disappointed when I find the
ramp empty. I sit down anyway, and I'm just starting to
unwrap my burrito when I hear a familiar voice from behind.
“You're just racking up the tolls, aren't you?”
CHAPTER 16
I TURN TO FIND BEC standing over me. She's wearing a
Cure T-shirt with the neck cut out, black leggings, and a
plaid skirt that gives me Catholic school flashbacks. She's
been gone for nearly three days, and she looks like she
spent the whole time at Super-Hot Goth Girl Makeover
Camp. Her expression is, as ever, unreadable behind her
mirrored sunglasses.
“Hi,” I say. Bec smirks.
“First,” she says, counting off on her fingers, “there's the
toll from last week, and then I actually gave you two juice
boxes—plus one for today. And I figure you've come looking
for me every day this week. So honestly, at this point we're
way beyond Amazon gift cards and deep into narcotics
territory.”
I hold back a smile. “What makes you so sure I came
looking for you?”
Bec drops her backpack and sits next to me on the ramp.
She pulls her shades down and looks at me with those blue
eyes.
“Riley, if I were to disclose to you the full extent of my
powers, the shadow government would be here within
moments to whisk me away in an unmarked black
helicopter. Have you ever ridden in a helicopter?”
“No,” I admit.
“Well, let's just say that if I ever decide to tell you my
secrets, I will need a triple dose of nondrowsy Dramamine in
addition to the aforementioned narcotics.”
“I see.”
Bec reaches into her backpack and extracts a three-footlong
stick of beef jerky. I grimace. I take a bite of my beanand-
no-cheese burrito, and for a moment, we just eat in
silence.
“So,” I say. “Were you traveling with your dad?”
“No. I was . . . taking care of some family stuff.”
“Oh.” That's all I get? I want to ask where the hell she's
been, and why she hasn't called me since our date—if that's
even what it was. And then it occurs to me—maybe she
expected me to call her. All these thoughts lock up in my
head, and none of them make it to my mouth.
Bec extracts a juice box from her backpack. “I heard you
had words with the football team.”
I gape at her. “How did you know?”
“Everybody knows. You were, like, yelling in the middle of
the cafeteria.”
“I never yelled.”
Bec shrugs. “Well, you made some waves.” A wide grin
splits her face. “People are talking about you behind your
back.”
Great. Not only have I failed to blend in, but I'm making
waves. I swallow hard. “What are they saying?”
Bec pulls off her sunglasses and considers me. “They're
saying how the new kid totally owned the couple from hell in
front of everyone at lunch.”
I smile, though I suspect she's embellishing for my
benefit. “‘The new kid.' Is that all they're calling me?”
Bec shrugs. “One person may have referred to you as
‘that androgynous chick-dude.' But I slapped his hat off.”
My smile widens considerably.
“But listen,” Bec says, narrowing her eyes. “You should
be careful. Jim Vickers is not a guy you want to piss off.”
I remember Vickers's look, and I suppress a shudder. “I'll
be okay. I'm friends with someone else on the team.”
Bec nods. “Jason Solomona. Aka Chewie. Used to be one
of us until Coach Terrance turned him.”
“Turned him?”
Bec sighs and stuffs the half-eaten Slim Jim back into her
backpack. “You can't be on the football team and still hang
with the freaks and geeks. Chewie learned that a long time
ago.”
“Well, he's friends with me,” I say.
“Then why aren't you eating with him?”
I smile. “Maybe I prefer the company of cute girls with lip
rings.”
And then I realize that I actually said that out loud, with
my actual voice, and my stomach sort of ceases to exist,
leaving a large vacuum where my guts were just a moment
before.
But Bec seems unperturbed by the comment. She puts
her shades back on and says, “What are you doing this
weekend?”
My guts are back, but now they're doing somersaults.
“Nothing,” I say. “I mean, I'm grounded.”
“When does your sentence end?”
“Saturday.”
“Perfect. You're coming with me to a club in LA.”
Oh my God. She's asking me out. Again.
“I'm—I don't have ID.”
Bec laughs. “It's all ages.”
“I don't think my parents will let me.”
Bec puts a hand on my shoulder and leans in. Her face is
inches from mine. I catch that scent again. Smells like . . .
vanilla, but with something spicy underneath. Warmth
spreads through my middle.
Bec speaks, her voice soft, the beginnings of her words
coming out in a purr. “If your parents knew the crushing
weight of your debt to me, and if they understood that
coming with me Saturday night was the only way to repay
that debt, short of acquiring nearly a metric ton of schedule
one controlled substances, they would say yes, Riley.”
I swallow. Bec doesn't move, just keeps her face close to
mine, waiting.
I open my mouth to reply—but someone interrupts from
behind me, breaking the spell.
“Hey, Bec,” a vaguely familiar voice says.
Bec leans back and lets her hand drop into her lap. I turn
to see Erik standing on the other side of the railing.
“How can I help you, Erik?” Bec says, her voice dripping
with irritation.
Erik hesitates, his eyes flicking in my direction as though
he wishes I wasn't here to witness this conversation. He
tugs at the hem of his sweaty shirt with a pudgy hand.
Bec clears her throat impatiently, and Erik finally speaks
up.
“Can I have five bucks?” he says.
Bec rolls her eyes. “Why should I lend you five bucks?”
He shoots me another uncomfortable glance, then looks
back at his sister. “Lunch,” he says quietly.
“Oh yeah,” Bec says, and I could swear her face goes
slightly pale. She plunges a hand into her backpack and
extracts a crumpled bill. “Here's ten.”
Erik looks down at it. “I really only need five.”
“It's fine,” she says, waving the ten at him.
“Thanks.” He takes the bill, turns, and walks away with
his head down.
I look back at Bec, but she's focused on rearranging the
contents of her backpack. I want to ask what that was all
about, why they both seemed so uncomfortable. But she
seems pretty embarrassed by the whole thing, and besides,
asking about family stuff would open the conversation to
topics I'd rather avoid, too—at least, for now.
Beck zips her backpack and looks up at me. “So,” she
says, “Saturday.”
“Yeah. Yes,” I say, then bite my bottom lip to stop myself
from endlessly rambling on in the affirmative.
Bec smiles, stands, and throws her backpack over one
shoulder. “Pick me up at six.”
“Where?”
“I have explained all of this in the note,” Bec says.
“What note?”
Bec produces a folded piece of notebook paper and leans
over to hand it to me. As she does, the cutout neck of her
shirt falls forward, revealing the gentle line of her collarbone
where it meets the slope of her neck. She clears her throat,
and I look up at her face. She smirks as I take the note, and
then she turns abruptly and walks away.
I sit down at my desk after school, intending to cram for my
Precalc test, but I can't concentrate. I have a date on
Saturday night. I mean, I think it's a date. My face heats up
at the thought of standing next to Bec in some dimly lit club
—and I get out of my chair and start pacing my room. Will I
have to dance? What should I wear? I curse, wishing I had
someone to call who could give me advice about these
things.
And then I remember my blog followers. Statistically
speaking, at least one of them has to have been in a
situation like this before.
I drop into my desk chair, open my laptop, and start to
log in to Bloglr—but my fingers pause above the keyboard,
and I remember why I haven't logged in since Sunday: the
trans girl at the train station. I have a sinking feeling that
my advice didn't help—and that, if I log in, I'll find out she
hasn't replied. And I'll know it's because she jumped onto
the tracks after all.
And then I remember the anonymous hate message, and
the cold smile from Vickers. Are they connected? Will
another message—an even worse one—be waiting for me
when I log in?
I stare at the Bloglr home screen, watching the little
green frog logo catch animated flies with its long, pink
tongue. Am I one of those flies? If I log back in, will I get
caught and eaten?
I can't hide forever. Like Solo said, there will always be
haters, but I can't let them stop me from doing what I want.
And, if I'm too scared to look, I might as well delete my blog.
No longer feeling remotely like asking for dating advice, I
log in and bring up my dash. My reply to the trans girl has
gone viral. More than a thousand users have liked,
commented on, or reblogged my reply to her call for help. I
click on the post and scroll through the comments.
DZboy: Stay strong girl! We're with you.
Anonymous: Hang on, sweetie. It gets better :\
shy-town-refugee: if ur in Chicago u can come
crash w us. msg me!
They go on and on, an outpouring of love, support, and
resources for the girl at the train station. My heart beats
faster—I still haven't seen anything from the girl herself. Is
she still alive? In the hopes that she's sent me another
message, I click on my inbox and start reading.
MustangGrl96: Please tell anon I went thru the
same thing. She can msg me.
Expecto_Patron: So brave. Please tell her we love
her!
There are dozens like this, and as I scroll through them,
my fear dissipates. The impact of one anonymous hate
message seems insignificant compared with this
demonstration of support.
Finally, I come to this message, sent in the early hours of
Monday morning: wak1ng-up: Hi Alix. I'm the trans girl who
wrote you from the train station. I just wanted to say thank
you so much for your reply. You made me feel like I'm not so
alone. When the flood of responses came in, I totally started
crying. I called one of the hotlines and they told me about a
safe house nearby, but I think I am just going to go home. I
think if I don't, it will only make things worse with my
parents. Anyway thanks again. You kind of saved me.
I put my hands over my face. My shoulders shake once,
then once more. Two hard sobs, and I think there will be
more, but they taper off. Relief surges through me. I wipe
my eyes and read the message again, and then I reply.
Alix: Thank you so much for writing back. I'm glad
you decided to stay. Please message me if you want to
talk more. Hang in there.
It doesn't feel like I'm saying enough, but I don't know
what else to say. I click Send.
There's one more message in my inbox.
MiMi_Q: Hi Alix. My name is Mike/Michelle Weston.
I'm the curator of QueerAlliance.org, and I've
messaged you once before. I don't know where in the
world you are, or whether you're interested, but we
can always use contributors to QueerAlliance, or “the
Q,” as we call it around here. Send me a message if
that interests you—or, if you're near Los Angeles, you
could always visit the center. Check the website for
address and hours.
By the way—in case you haven't realized it yet: I
believe you've found your cause.
—Mike/Michelle
My shoulders shake one more time—in a sob or a laugh, I
honestly can't tell. I sit back and stare at the screen.
I've found my cause.
CHAPTER 17
THE NEXT COUPLE OF SCHOOL days are the best so far:
talking music with Solo before English, laughing with Bec on
the ramp at lunch. I doubt I'll make the prom ballot, but I do
feel like I'm finally settling in at Park Hills High; I practice
speaking French with Casey Reese, and I even exchange
civil nods with Erik. I have a couple more fluctuations at
school—two on Thursday alone—but I'm less self-conscious
about them, and I don't have any more panic attacks. I may
not be “blending in”—but if I'm standing out, at least I feel
like I've found a place to stand. Knowing that I have my blog
community—even though it's anonymous and online—
makes me feel like I belong, like I have a purpose, and that
gives me confidence as I walk through the halls. I still
endure occasional looks as I'm heading to my locker or
standing in line for food, but for the most part, the people
who don't like me just leave me alone.
At lunch on Friday I stop by the admin building to drop off
the last of my transfer paperwork. When I walk in, I spot Jim
Vickers seated outside the counselor's office. The sight of
him elevates my heart rate instantaneously, and I almost
turn and walk right back out—but then I notice that he's
slumped in the chair, his shoulders hunched, his jaw
propped in one hand. He looks defeated. He glances up as I
approach the counter, and I can tell he recognizes me—but
he just looks away.
The office door opens, and a tall man in a beige sports
coat emerges. His resemblance to Jim is unmistakable—this
has to be his dad. He shoots Jim a sharp look, and then
heads for the exit. As he turns, I notice that he's wearing a
white clerical collar, similar to the ones the priests at
Immaculate Heart wore. Jim stands hastily and follows him
out, looking like a dog who just had his nose rubbed in his
own poop. I wonder what he did to earn that sharp look, let
alone a trip the office; whatever it was, he probably
deserved it. As I wait for the registrar to find my file,
another thought occurs to me: I hope my own dad never has
to make an appearance on campus. Having a preacher for a
dad might suck, but it can't hold a candle to being a
congressman's kid.
By Saturday afternoon, I still haven't worked up the
courage to ask Bec if our date is actually a date—so I decide
to treat it like one anyway. Just in case.
I lie on my bed and pull her note out of my messenger
bag. I unfold it and read it for perhaps the tenth time since
Wednesday.
Bullet Hole
12629 W. Imperial Hwy, Suite 7K
6PM. Come as you are.
I'm not sure what Bullet Hole is. I consider looking it up,
but I'm kind of enjoying the mystery, and I have a feeling
that's what Bec intended. The address is on the west side of
town, in an industrial area maybe ten minutes past the
railroad tracks. But the final line is the reason I've reread
the note so many times:
6PM. Come as you are.
I run my thumb across the letters, which were written
hard with a ballpoint pen. Come as you are. What could that
mean? Maybe it's just her way of telling me that the club
has no dress code. But something about it makes me think
there's more to it. Does she know . . . about me? The idea
that she might have figured it out on her own brings me a
fantastic sense of relief; but just underneath that, there's
the fear that, if she hasn't figured it out, she'll reject me
when she finally does.
I reread Bec's note three more times, trying in vain to
find some secret meaning in the handwritten lines, some
hint at what she might know about me, or about what she
has planned for tonight. I glance at the clock: It's only three.
I have hours to kill before I leave to pick her up—and if I
don't distract myself, I'll spend the whole time poring over
her note like a psycho. I think about Doctor Ann telling me
I'm not crazy, and I wonder what she'd think now as I press
the letter to my face to see if it smells like Bec. Nope, no
vanilla. Just notebook paper. Gah! I've got to get out of my
own head. Think about someone else. “Engage,” as Doctor
Ann would put it. Maybe she's right about this whole
“having a cause” thing.
So I stuff the note back into my pocket, roll over, and log
in to Bloglr. I hit the jackpot on the very first message.
KimmieG1995: Hi Alix! I'm writing to you because I
just found a box of girl clothes in my little brother's
closet. He's sixteen. I've thought he was gay for a
long time and I'm totally cool with it but I don't know
how to talk to him about it. Anyway I saw your “Both
and Neither” post and now I think my brother might
be gender fluid too. What do I do?
Tentatively, I start typing a response, referring KimmieG
to a transgender allies support group—but I stop. I sort of
already know what they're going to tell her—and maybe my
perspective could help this girl. So I delete my generic
response and start to write what's in my heart. After a half
hour of typing and deleting and rewriting, I come up with
this:
Alix: Hi Kimmie. Your brother is lucky to have such
a caring sister. That said: if I were him, I would be
completely weirded out if my big sis told me she had
been going through my closet. So don't start there.
You don't know how he feels about all this; he could
still be trying to figure it out. He may not be ready to
talk. Hell, for all we know, the clothes might belong to
a secret girlfriend.
The thing is, he probably just wants to be accepted.
Don't think of him as a kid with some kind of disease
or disability. Just treat him like an equal. Don't walk on
eggshells trying to figure out what's going on. There's
no need to have “the big talk.” Maybe you could find
subtle ways of letting him know you're open-minded
about gender identity stuff; mention a book, or a
movie with a trans character in it. Make positive
remarks. He'll get it.
But the most important thing is—just be the kind of
person he will want to turn to when he—or, she—is
ready.
#genderfluid #advice
I post it, and then I have a minor panic event in which I
reread it three times and almost delete it. I sound . . .
stupid. Not at all as witty and charming as I sound in my
own head. But I think the advice is right—and it feels good,
replying. Reaching out. So good that I move on to the next
message.
Anonymous: Alix, thank you for writing that
apostrophe thing the other day! I was having a
horrible day and I really needed that laugh. I wish I
could be witty like that in real life when I get made fun
of. Anyway, sometimes I get really depressed and just
want to die. Reading your post made me want to hang
on a little longer.
I stare at that last line. It's hard to believe my joke made
that big a difference. But there's something undeniably
honest, even raw, about the message that resonates with
me. I think about my own “down” moments, and how hard I
try to appear happier or less broken than I feel. That's what
this message feels like to me—the false cheeriness of a
desperate person. Carefully, I type out a reply.
Alix: Dear Anon, please don't think I'm witty IRL. I
could never think of stuff like that in the moment,
that's why I post it here! Seriously, I should rename
this blog “Clever S#%! I Should Have Said.”
Thank you for being brave and sharing about being
depressed. I wish I could say I didn't understand what
you mean, but I do. Last week, I couldn't walk through
the cafeteria without having an anxiety attack. Some
days I don't even want to get out of bed; I just want to
pull the blankets over my head and let the void suck
me down into its depths.
But then I started sharing. Writing this blog. And it
kind of saved me. In a way, you saved me—by reading
it, and writing back and sharing yourself. All of you
did.
So. There's something to remember: we're here for
each other. We may be strangers on the internet, but
we're real. And we're here.
If only we could all get together and form an
Academy for Lost Souls*.
The art department would kick ass.
*Academy for Lost Souls is the name of my new
indie rock group.
#genderfluid #depression #anxiety #suicide
I click Post, feeling gratified and, honestly, kind of fired
up. Giving advice to strangers felt weird at first—but I'm
starting to like it. It makes me feel like my own situation
isn't so hopeless. It makes me feel brave.
And maybe it's because I can't stop thinking about going
out with Bec tonight, but my internal compass needle is
absolutely pegged on F. Like, just the thought of wearing
pants makes my legs start to feel plasticky. But I still don't
know how Bec perceives me; and while I really want to
present as a girl tonight, I'm worried that if I'm too girly, I'll
turn her off. So I have to go with neutral.
On the other hand, I don't want to pick her up while I'm
in a dysphoria spiral, either, because panic attacks aren't
exactly alluring. So, feeling a little brave, I decide to do a
couple of clandestine girly things. First, I go into the
bathroom and dig out the crate of unused styling products
my mother has bought me over the last few years in an
attempt to make me conform to her repressive twentiethcentury
hair values. By mixing a few of them—a white waxy
substance and a brownish paste—I'm able to tame the
cowlick on the top of my head and shape my shaggy bangs
into a more feminine sweep. It's not a Hello Kitty barrette,
but it definitely makes me feel more girly. Then, I go back
into my room and grab the unopened bottle of lavender oil
my mother bought from Mrs. Wells—it's supposed to be
some kind of homeopathic antianxiety thing—and dab some
on my wrists and behind my ears. It's super subtle, not too
perfumey, but I absolutely love it. I press my wrist to my
nose and look at myself the mirror. My face breaks into a
wide smile; I feel 100 percent better. My heart is beating
fast—but in a good way.
I bring up Bikini Kill's “Rebel Girl” on my phone, plug in
my earbuds, and jump around my room like an absolute
freak for the next two minutes and thirty-seven seconds.
At five thirty, I head downstairs to see my parents off;
they're going to dinner with some big oil company rep. Mom
is in the kitchen, packing homemade peanut-butter fudge
into an enormous tin.
Dad is parked in front of the big TV, watching himself on
some talking-head show. The interviewer says, “Your new
education bill calls for massive budget increases. But just
two years ago, you voted against a similar initiative. Can
you explain that?”
On screen, Dad smiles. It's his congressman smile, but I'll
be damned if I don't believe it. “Absolutely, Debbie,” he
says. “Since I cast that vote, I've visited over fifty schools in
ten states. I've seen what's happening on the front lines,
and we've got to make some big changes.”
“So you changed your position?” the interviewer says.
He nods. “I know, I know. My advisers warned me against
it. Said it was a bad move politically. But it was the right
thing to do for our kids, and for our country.”
Debbie steeples her fingers. “This isn't just another
example of the famous Cavanaugh folksy underdog
routine?”
Dad laughs. “‘Folksy underdog routine.' That's good. I
wish my team had come up with that.” In fact, they had
come up with it—I overheard that exact term being
discussed during one of their late-night meetings—and now
the press is using it. Watching my dad onscreen, I can see
his charm working on the interviewer like it works on
everybody he comes into contact with. On the one hand, it
makes me wonder if he's ever used his powers on me; on
the other, I envy his charisma. Why couldn't I have inherited
that?
Dad flips off the TV and stands. “Sharon, if we don't
leave now, the Ellises are going to beat us to Angelo's.”
As she passes me on her way to the garage, Mom looks
at me and cocks her head. “Did you do something different
with your hair?”
I touch it self-consciously. “Um. Sort of.”
“It looks . . . good.” She smiles.
“Thanks,” I say, wondering which word was on the tip of
her tongue before she changed her mind and said “good”
instead.
Once the Lincoln has pulled out of the driveway and
turned the corner, I get in the minivan and type the address
Bec gave me into my phone. I follow the directions to the
industrial side of town. After ten minutes, I'm as far west in
Park Hills as I've ever been. I'm surprised and a little uneasy
when my phone tells me to turn right into an industrial park
that looks almost abandoned.
According to the signs mounted above the rusting roll-up
doors, the complex contains a trophy manufacturer, a
furniture restoration workshop, a defunct T-shirt screenprinting
place, and several other now-deserted
office/warehouse suites. The last building is number seven,
and I pull up behind it and stop the minivan.
There's a red logo on the door: a tattoo-style drawing of
a human skull with a hole in its forehead, inscribed in a
circle of text that reads “Bullet Hole Studios.” I hear a
cacophony of drums and electric guitar issuing from within.
I'm about to turn off the engine when the door to suite 7K
opens, and a tall, stubbly-faced guy in a red flannel shirt
emerges and lights a cigarette. He spots me, then pulls
open the studio door and yells something inside.
A moment later Bec comes out, toting a guitar case in
one hand. She's wearing a black denim jacket over a white
scoop-neck tank top, and my eyes linger a moment on the
exposed skin. She sees me through the passenger window
of the minivan, and her mouth turns up in that familiar
smirk, sending warmth radiating through my midsection.
And then the tall guy reaches out, grabs her by the hand,
and pulls her into him. She goes up on her tiptoes and
throws an arm around his neck. He kisses her cheek.
The warmth in my stomach goes instantly cold. Bec has a
boyfriend?
After a moment, she pulls away and punches the guy
playfully in the gut. He parks his cigarette back in his mouth
and waves her away. She approaches the van, stows her
guitar in the back, then comes around to the front and
climbs in.
“Hi,” she says.
“Hi,” I say, trying to sound normal through the knot that
has now formed in the back of my throat.
“Hey.” Bec leans toward me, concern on her face. “You
okay?”
“Yeah,” I say, faking a smile. “Fine. Um, where are we
headed?”
“Pull out the way you came in and head back to the fiftyseven,”
Bec says, buckling her seat belt.
It's not until we're back on Imperial that I realize I've
been holding my breath, and I let it out slowly. There's a
long silence.
That guy—he was so . . . masculine. If that's what she's
into, I haven't got a snowball's chance in hell. Not on my
most guyish guy day. But it doesn't matter, because I can't
choose to fluctuate; it just happens. I can usually fake it
when I need to—mostly around my parents, and for short
periods of time—but, for some reason, when I'm with Bec, I
can't. Something about her, something in her presence
seems to short out my ability to pretend.
Maybe that's why I like being around her.
I should be making small talk, asking about her band or
something, but all I can think about is my stupid sweepy
hair, my lavender-scented wrists, and Bec, up on her tiptoes
with her arm around that guy.
“Hey. Riley,” Bec says, shocking me out of dark thoughts.
I look at her, and she says, “I'm glad you came.” There's an
uncertainty in her voice I've never heard before. A
vulnerability. And before I'm really aware of it, the words are
coming out of my mouth.
“Was that your boyfriend?” I ask, heat rising in my
cheeks.
Bec blinks, and her mouth twitches like she's suppressing
either a laugh or a frown, I can't tell which. “Um. He's my
drummer,” she replies.
“But you guys are, like . . . together?”
Bec cocks her head. “People are not canned goods, Riley.
We don't need labels.”
I tighten my grip on the wheel. What kind of answer is
that? I want to press her, but I don't want to seem
desperate, or drive her away. So, instead, I change the
subject.
“What's the name of your band?”
“Fluorescent Sunburn.”
“Oh. What kind of stuff?”
“It's, like, late shoegaze, early grunge.” Bec pulls out her
phone and plugs it into the port on the center console.
“Is this you?” I ask, gesturing at her phone.
“God, no,” she says. “I made you a playlist.”
I shift in my seat. She made me a playlist.
Bec goes on. “It's mostly live Bad Religion, for
educational purposes, but there's some bootlegged Pixies
stuff, too, since I know you're a complete pop whore.”
I gasp in indignation. “I am not a pop whore!” But I'm
laughing as I say it.
“Please,” Bec says, cranking up the volume and rolling
down her window. “Ramones, Pixies, the Police. Your T-shirt
collection is like a tour through the eighties.” She glances
over at me. “You look hot, by the way.”
The skin on my face bursts into flame.
“My cousin has that,” Bec says.
“What?” I reply.
“The blushing-for-no-reason thing.” I glance over at her,
and she twists her lips into that mischievous smirk that
seems to set my guts on fire. All thoughts of tall stubbly
dude evaporate. She made me a mix, and she thinks I look
hot. My eyes linger on Bec, her hair blowing, her blue eyes
bright in the glow of the streetlights, and I see that
vulnerability I heard in her voice a moment ago. I'm stricken
with a sudden compulsion to ask her about it. To break
through this weird wall she seems to put up at random.
“Hey, eyes on the road,” Bec says. I realize that I'm
staring at her, and I turn my focus back to the road just in
time to avoid drifting out of my lane. We pass under the
freeway, and I turn and gun it up the on-ramp.
The conversation comes in fits and starts, with Bec
interrupting frequently to turn up the volume and scream
over the music that I have to listen to this song. She sings
along with such a complete lack of self-consciousness that
when we come to a song I actually know—“Where Is My
Mind?” by the Pixies—I feel comfortable enough to join her.
When we pull off the 101 freeway in Hollywood, we roll
down the windows and scream the lyrics at the top of our
lungs.
“Make a right,” Bec says, breaking off from the song.
“Turn here. Pull in the back.”
We pull into the parking lot behind a three-story brick
building. It looks like one of the older structures in LA;
maybe a hundred years ago it was an office building or a
textiles factory. I park the van and follow Bec to a heavy
steel door, probably the deliveries entrance. I don't hear any
music coming from inside, and when I look around, there are
only half a dozen cars in the parking lot. There's no
marquee, there's no velvet rope, there's no line around the
block.
I turn to Bec. “What kind of club is this?”
She bites her lip, making the little silver ring twitch.
“Don't be pissed, okay?”
I frown. “Why are we going in the back?”
“Have you not figured out by now that I like a little
mystery? Come on.” As she moves past me, she takes my
hand as if it's the most casual thing in the world, and the
goose bumps travel up my arm to the back of my neck,
where all the hairs stand on end. Bec pulls open the door
and we walk in.
It's an open space, like the basement of an old store,
with a concrete floor and wooden columns supporting a
ceiling of exposed beams. A dozen folding chairs are
arranged in a circle at the center of the room.
The first person I notice is a large woman in an ill-fitting
blue suit. Upon closer examination, I see stubble on her
cheeks. She—or he—is holding hands with a slim Hispanic
guy who looks like he could be an actor. Next to him sits a
girl in combat boots, fidgeting with an unlit cigarette as she
glances nervously around the room. Near the back wall,
someone with short, vividly green hair is pouring water into
a big electric coffeepot. From the back, I can't tell if the
punk hairstyle belongs to a guy or a girl.
Then, as I'm turning to Bec to ask her what we've just
walked into, the most striking woman I've ever seen waves
and starts toward us. She's well over six feet tall, lean and
graceful, and even in the dim incandescence, her dark skin
glows. She walks straight up to Bec, wraps her long arms
around her like an affectionate octopus, and lifts her off the
ground.
“Baby, baby, baby,” she says. “Where on earth have you
been?”
Bec's face is red when her feet finally touch ground
again. “Just . . . busy.”
“Well, it's wonderful to have you back.” The woman calls
over her shoulder. “Mimi! Come look who's here!” She turns
to me. “And who is our new friend?”
I wait for Bec to introduce me, but she doesn't. The tall
woman bends her knees so her eyes are on a level with
mine, flashes a wide smile, and extends her hand.
“I'm Kanada,” she says. “Like the country, but with a K.
And I am very pleased to meet you.” She squeezes my hand
with surprising strength; and that's when I notice that, from
this angle, I can see that she has a very pronounced Adam's
apple. I look over at Bec, who smiles at the dawning
recognition on my face.
Kanada turns to Bec and makes a tsk noise. “Is this a
surprise party?”
Bec shrugs.
“Mimi!” Kanada yells again, glancing toward the back of
the room. A tall, professional-looking woman in a cranberry
dress approaches.
“I'm right here,” she says, laying an affectionate hand on
Kanada's shoulder. Something about this woman is vaguely
familiar. Like maybe I've seen her on TV. When she
recognizes Bec, she smiles broadly and embraces her.
“We've missed your sense of humor around here,” she says.
And then she turns to me and offers her hand.
“Welcome to the Q,” she says. “I'm Mike/Michelle.”
CHAPTER 18
TIME SEEMS TO FREEZE, AND I stand there with my
mouth slightly agape. After a moment, I sputter,
“Mike/Michelle Weston?”
She raises her eyebrows. “Have we met?”
We have, in a way. She's sent me messages online—well,
technically, she sent them to Alix—but of course, she
wouldn't recognize me. How could she?
“I've been to your website,” I say.
Kanada laughs and throws an arm around her. “Girlfriend
is famous!” She turns to me. “What's your name, baby?”
“I'm Riley,” I say.
“It's very nice to meet you, Riley,” Mike/Michelle says.
“We're just about to get started.”
We make our way to the center of the room. I pick a seat
with empty chairs on either side, and Bec sits down
between me and the woman in the blue suit. Feeling a bit
bigoted myself, I glance from Kanada's prominent Adam's
apple to the hint of stubble on the big woman's face. This
“club” is obviously some kind of LGBTQ support group—
which means Bec brought me here for a reason: She knows.
When the realization hits me, I expect my heart to start
pounding, or my fingers to start tingling—but instead, I let
out an involuntary laugh of relief. If Bec does know, the fact
that we're here together proves she's already accepted me.
My laugh morphs almost instantaneously into tears, and I
hastily wipe my eyes. I shoot a glance at Bec to see if she's
noticed, but she's deep in conversation with the handsome
Latino guy and appears to have missed my mini meltdown.
Mike/Michelle calls the meeting to order, and the rest of
the group take their seats.
“Hello, everyone,” she says. A handful of people say
hello, and a few clap. “Welcome to Queer Alliance, which we
affectionately call ‘the Q.' We're a gender and sexuality
support group, and you don't have to fit into any specific
category to be here. Some of us are gay, some of us are
trans, and some of us are genderqueer. Some of us are out,
and some of us aren't. This is a safe place where we share
what we're going through. And tonight, we have some new
faces, and some old friends, too.” She nods toward Bec and
me, and most of the heads turn in our direction. Bec smiles
warmly. I give an awkward wave. Mike/Michelle continues,
“Let's start with our dedication.” Everyone clasps hands; I
take Bec's in my right, and Kanada reaches out to take my
left. Most people bow their heads, and some just close their
eyes. Mike/Michelle looks up as if talking to the sky. “Tonight
we come together as a community—not to focus on our
flaws, but to celebrate our uniqueness. To share our pain,
our joy, and our love, and to create a better tomorrow.”
Bec lets go of my hand as people start to applaud.
Apparently, clapping is big with this crowd. When the
applause dies down, Mike/Michelle continues.
“We'll start by going around the circle. But there's no
pressure.” Mike/Michelle talks as though she's addressing
the whole room, but I can tell she's speaking to me. “Feel
free to introduce yourself, share something about your
week, or just pass the conch to the next person. I'll start. I'm
Mike/Michelle, the mediator of this group and the
administrator of QueerAlliance.org. Even though my
transition is complete, I go by Mike/Michelle—because when
I meet someone new, my name becomes an opening for
dialogue, and that's what I'm all about.” Her face splits in a
smile that includes the whole room. “Okay,” she says.
“Who's next?”
“I'll go.” It's the girl in the combat boots. She's sitting to
Mike/Michelle's left, and speaks in a low monotone. “I'm
Chris. I do IT at a big financial group.” She makes eye
contact with me, but only briefly. “For the new people, I
know I look like a girl, but that's not how I identify. I started
transitioning about ninety days ago. I have to live with being
addressed as a girl all day, so I'd appreciate . . .” Her—his
voice breaks, and he stops.
I catch myself staring at him, and then I look down at my
lap instead. This is the second time in as many weeks that
I've misjudged someone else's gender identity. I feel a pang
of shame; like everyone else, my instinct is to put people in
a category.
Chris continues. “Yesterday, I was informed that my
insurance will no longer cover my hormone therapy.”
The woman in the blue suit grunts in disgust. “You should
sue,” she says. “I'll take the case myself.”
Chris shakes his head. “Companies don't have to fund
birth control if it goes against their ‘moral values.' They
argue the same for transition treatment. I just . . .” Chris
buries his face in the crook of one arm. “I can't go back
there. The way they look at me . . .” His speech dissolves
into sobs.
I sit back in my chair and stare at my hands. My
problems suddenly seem small, even ridiculous, compared
to this man's. I glance around the group. Everyone, Bec
included, is watching Chris with expressions of empathy and
concern—and I start to feel like I'm intruding. Like I
shouldn't be witnessing this stranger's vulnerable moment.
Once Chris has composed himself, he goes on. “I'm going
to start looking for another job. And I'm not stopping
therapy; I'll just have to figure out how to pay for it out of
pocket.” The group applauds him, and he accepts their
acknowledgment with a teary smile.
The big woman in the blue dress volunteers to share
next. She introduces herself as Bennie, and says that she
identifies as a trans woman. After twenty years of hiding,
Bennie explains, she finally came out to her wife—who
promptly filed for divorce. Now she's going through
hormone therapy and struggling with the accompanying
weight gain. Herman, the tall Latino man, is Bennie's
straight, cismale boyfriend. When they met at a law
conference last year, Bennie was still presenting as a man—
but Herman somehow saw past that, and they fell in love.
It's a beautiful story, and they laugh as they take turns
retelling it.
A few times, I find myself glancing at the person with the
short green hair. She—or he—looks to be around twentyfive,
has very fine features, and doesn't appear to be
wearing any makeup. A puffy green flight jacket obscures
the more telling parts of his or her anatomy. At one point
our eyes meet, and I look away, embarrassed.
Bec goes next. She says hi and that it's good to see
everyone—and that's when I wonder: How did she even
know about this place? She seems to know everybody by
name, as though she's been here dozens of times before.
What am I missing?
And then it's my turn to talk. Mike/Michelle said I
shouldn't feel pressure to say anything, but I do; after
hearing everyone else share their most personal thoughts, I
feel like I owe them something. As the eyes turn toward me,
my heart starts to beat faster, and the saliva seems to
evaporate from my mouth. After a long, uncomfortable
silence, Kanada takes mercy on me by launching into a
story about her daughter. I'm not really listening—I'm too
busy trying to control my breathing—but I'm grateful for the
rescue.
Eventually, the formal, go-around-the-circle format
dissolves into a more open discussion. As everyone shares
what's happening in their lives, I start to feel more normal. I
feel lucky to have figured myself out at sixteen instead of
waiting until I was married with kids. Some of these people
grew up without the internet; they had no way of reaching
out, no way to find out why they felt the way they felt, or
even to discover that it had a name.
At one point, Mike/Michelle invites the member with the
green hair—who apparently goes by Morgan—to share, but
Morgan graciously declines in a soft, alto voice. By the time
Mike/Michelle calls the meeting to a close, reminding the
regulars that next week's session has been rescheduled for
Friday, I already know I want to come back.
It's 10:15 when we pull out of the parking lot and then make
a right on Sunset. Traffic crawls along the Boulevard; even
the sidewalks are full of life, but I don't really see any of it.
Every part of my brain not required to operate the minivan
is trying to make sense of the last three hours.
What kind of second date was this? Or, was it a date at
all? Furthermore, how did Bec know about the Q, and why
does she seem to know all of its members? I want to ask her
a hundred questions.
“Hey,” Bec says. “You okay?”
“Yeah. Just thinking.”
Bec adjusts her seat belt and turns to face me. “You were
pretty quiet at the meeting.”
I shrug. “I wasn't really prepared for that kind of thing.”
“I know,” Bec says. “I'm sorry. I shouldn't have surprised
you like that.” She glances out the windshield, gently
punching her thigh with a fist. “I have an overdeveloped
sense of drama.”
“You say that like a person with an overdeveloped sense
of drama.”
She laughs.
“It's okay,” I say. “Really. I just didn't know what I was
walking into.”
“See? Mystery. Not a bad thing.” She smiles, and I smile
back.
“So, how did you know about that place?” I ask. Bec
turns away, maybe to look out the window, or maybe to
avoid my gaze. “Bec?”
After a long silence, she turns to face me again, and that
crooked smile is back on her face. “That's not really seconddate
material,” she says.
Second date? Fireworks go off in my midsection.
Questions rush to the top of my mind—but before I can ask
any of them, Bec says, “Wait. Where are we? Did you
already pass San Vicente?”
I shrug. “I have no idea.”
“Oh, great. Hang on.” She pulls out her phone and
checks the map. “Okay. Turn right up here. On Larrabee.”
Just as I pull into the intersection, Bec shrieks and starts
pointing frantically out the driver's side window. I almost
drive off the road.
“Look! Look! It's—ohmygod ohmygod! It's— Look, it's
him!”
But I can't look, because I'm trying to pull the van back
into my lane while simultaneously recovering from a minor
cardiac event.
“Jesus, what? Who?”
“Him, with the . . . from the . . . band!”
“Who?”
“The . . . guy, with the— Dave! Standing right outside the
Viper Room. Dave Grohl!”
“Foo Fighters' Dave Grohl?”
“Yes! Yes! Right there!” She's unbuckled her seat belt
and is now hanging out the window.
“Do you want me to stop?”
She drops back into her seat and gapes at me. “Stop? Oh
God, no. What would I say? Just keep driving.”
I glance into the rearview mirror just in time to see the
faint green glow of the neon sign, and then it passes out of
view. Bec sinks into the passenger seat, taking deep
breaths.
“So, Dave Grohl, huh?” I think of that flannel-wearing
drummer kissing her cheek. “Really? That's your type?”
Bec refastens her seat belt and rolls up her window.
“Don't be ridiculous. I don't have a ‘type.' And even if I did,
Dave Grohl transcends all sexual boundaries.”
“I guess,” I say, feeling a twinge of jealousy. “You looked
like you were having a fit back there.”
“Ugh! I know. I can never spit out words when it's
important,” Bec says. “Like, I was at the zoo once with my
sister when I was a kid, and we were standing outside the
monkey enclosure. And she was just staring through the
bars at these two adult spider monkeys, who were, like,
picking fleas off each other and eating them or whatever—
but she didn't see the baby monkey hanging right above
her, with a handful of poo, about to fling it. And you'd think I
would be able to yell, ‘Sister, beware! Monkey poo from
above!' Or, ‘Incoming!' at least.”
“So you didn't warn her?”
“No! All I could muster was ‘Monkey! Monkey! Monkey!'
But it was too late. Splat.”
“No.”
“Yup. She took a load of monkey dung right in the skull.
Ugh. We couldn't shampoo all of it out. We had to cut off so
much of her hair!”
I laugh, and Bec does, too. But the laughter fades
quickly, and the silence rushes in to fill its space. Bec looks
out the window again.
After a moment I sort of blurt, “How did she die?”
Bec doesn't reply right away, and I'm afraid I've gone too
far. “I'm sorry,” I say. “You don't have to answer that.”
“It's okay,” Bec says, and I believe her. “She had a bad
reaction to some medication, and they couldn't resuscitate
her.”
“Oh. God, Bec. I'm so sorry.” It's not enough, but I don't
know what else to say.
Bec nods and then falls quiet, and I pull onto the freeway.
The traffic is horrible, and we inch our way through
downtown at about fifteen miles per hour. Bec reaches over
and turns on the stereo. Bad Religion breaks the silence,
and for a while, we just listen. Finally, I reach over and turn
down the volume.
“So, how come you don't sit with the Hardcores
anymore?”
Bec turns to me. “The who?”
“Oh yeah, sorry. I sort of nicknamed your table ‘the
Hardcores.'”
“The Hardcores. That's funny.” Her smile fades a little.
“But it wasn't my table.”
“You said sometimes you need a day off. But that was,
like, a week ago.”
Bec turns to look out the window. “People are okay one
on one. But get them in groups, and they start adopting this
hive mind. Like we all have to like the same band and buy
the same brand of hair dye.”
She hasn't answered my question, any of my questions,
really, but I decide not to push it. I'm enjoying her company,
and I don't want to spoil that. The conversation ebbs and
flows. We talk about music—we like a lot of the same bands
—but mostly, we avoid talking about the big issues. Sex,
family, stuff like that. It's a pretty superficial conversation,
to be honest, but I sort of don't care. With her, even the
surface stuff feels . . . I don't know. Deep. Alive.
The traffic breaks up just south of Hollywood. Downtown
recedes behind us, and before I know it, we're back in Park
Hills, pulling off the 57.
“Should I take you home?” I say.
“Nah, just back to Bullet Hole.”
I pull up at the studio and kill the engine. We sit there for
a while, neither of us moving or talking. Just sitting and
breathing. I sense more than see her hand resting on the
center console. It seems to have its own magnetic pull,
drawing my hand toward it. I release my death grip on the
steering wheel and let my right hand fall gently into my lap.
Then, slowly, I inch my arm toward the console.
“I'm glad you came,” Bec says.
“Me too.” I take a slow breath, and then reach for Bec's
hand—but, at the same moment, she turns and grabs the
door handle.
I waited too long. I put my hand back on the wheel and
look away.
“So,” Bec says. “You want to do this again next week?”
My breath quickens, and I turn to look at her. I want to
scream YES! YES! YES! But instead, I say, “Yeah, that would
be good.”
And then the van door opens and Bec hops out, grabs
her guitar from the back, and slams the sliding door shut.
She waves, crosses the parking lot, and disappears into the
studio in a swell of crashing cymbals.
I get home thirty minutes before curfew. As I pull into the
driveway, the light goes out in my dad's den; he waited up
for me. I kill the engine and head inside.
Lying on my bed, my laptop whirring to life next to me, I
stare up at the ceiling and just breathe. I feel like a
completely different person from when I left the house just a
few hours ago. The kind of person who drives to LA with a
hot girl on a Saturday night. The kind of person who lies to
their parents and goes to support groups and tries to make
a move on said hot girl in a parking lot with live punk rock
thundering through the walls.
A few butterflies still twitch in my stomach, and I savor
the delicious discomfort. I wonder how things might have
gone if I had reached for Bec's hand just a moment sooner.
Would we have kissed? What would her lips feel like? At this
thought, the butterflies flap up a hurricane. But kiss or no
kiss, she still asked me out on a third date. A slow,
triumphant smile spreads across my face.
My laptop emits its welcoming chime, informing me that
my immersive online experience is only moments away. I
roll over onto my stomach and log in.
When my dash pops up, my jaw drops.
FOLLOWERS: 10,161
I stare at the number for a solid minute, not moving a
finger.
From five hundred–something to over ten thousand? How
the hell could that even happen? It has to be a glitch. I click
Refresh. The page goes white and then comes back to life—
but the numbers remain the same. I expect a swell of
excitement to rise within me; instead, I feel a wave of cold
dread that drowns whatever butterflies remain.
I click on the envelope icon: I have hundreds of
messages. I start scrolling through.
yell0wbedwetter: OMG have you seen the article?
QueerBoi1996: Guess ur gonna be bloglr famous
now! ;-)
Anonymous: Alix, I can't believe you responded to
that kid. WAY above your pay grade. You're
responsible for what happened and I hope they
prosecute you.
My panic rises as I skim message after message that
makes reference to some news story. I have to scroll
through a dozen before I find one that includes a link to the
article. I click it and begin to read.
Transgender Teen Survives Alleged Assault by Father
Nicholas Price, special contributor to The Advocate
NORMAN, Okla.—An Oklahoma teen sustained a
severe beating by her father after coming out as a
transgender girl to her parents on Sunday, police said.
She was treated for a fractured jaw, two broken ribs,
and multiple cuts on her face and arms at Oklahoma
University Medical Center and was released early
Monday.
Her father, Douglas Gingham, 42, was arrested on
suspicion of assault and is being held at the Cleveland
County Jail, Norman Police Department Sergeant John
Harmonson said.
The alleged attack reflects a growing trend of violence
inflicted on US teens who reveal their nonconforming
gender identities to family or classmates. While it is The
Advocate's policy to conceal the identity of minor
victims, Andrew “Andie” Gingham requested that her
name be used—with the permission of her mother—and
that her story be told to put a human face on the issue.
“When I told them, my dad hit me in the face,” said
Gingham, 17. “So I just left.”
That was when Gingham said she reached out online.
She sought the advice of a gender fluid blogger named
Alix, whose diary-cum-advice column, Hiding and Other
Social Skills (bloglr.com/alix), has been gaining popularity
in the LGBTQ community.
“That blog saved my life,” Gingham said. “When I left
my parents' house, I was lost. Ready to end it. But then
Alix responded. And just knowing that one other person
out there knew what I was going through—and cared
enough to write back—made me stop.” (Click here to
read the original blog post.)
Gingham said she didn't sustain her severest injuries
until she returned home in a second attempt to reconcile
with her parents. That was when the beating ensued,
police said.
“Dad had been drinking,” Gingham said. “He just lost
control.”
Gingham's mother was eventually able to calm her
husband and call an ambulance, Harmonson said.
Neither of Gingham's parents was available for
comment.
Despite the severity of her situation, Gingham
remained hopeful about the future.
“If I can live through this, I can live through anything,”
Gingham said. “It's time for all of us to come out. Trans
girls and trans boys and everybody. The longer we hide,
the more of us will get hurt every day. I don't want to be
a part of that anymore.”
Gingham spent the night at Oklahoma University
Medical Center before being transferred to a Child
Protective Services facility in Oklahoma City, but said she
expects to be returned to her mother after a closed
hearing later this week.
I read the story twice, and by the time I'm finished, my
face is tingling.
She listened to me—and she got beaten for it.
In the next moment, I'm overcome by an ironclad
conviction that the link is a fake, that this is some kind of
elaborate prank. Hastily, I Google the headline—but sure
enough, the Advocate story comes up as the first search
result. I go to QueerAlliance. The article is the top story,
along with a special profile on my blog, including my nownotorious
David Bowie avatar. Finally, I open a new browser
window and go directly to The Advocate's website. Andie
Gingham's story isn't on the home page, but I find it after
only a few clicks. I stare at her photo, and it feels as though
a hand is squeezing my heart. My eyes blur, and then the
tears spill out, running down my face.
Her father beat her. She went back, and he beat her.
I stand up, start to close my laptop, then sit back down
again. I clap a hand to my chest as if I can somehow slow
my heartbeat from the outside. I take a deep breath.
I'm not responsible for her injuries—of course I'm not—
but I'm not innocent, either. I got involved. It may not have
been my fists that beat her—but my words left their own
marks. Very real, very tangible marks. But Andie didn't
blame me—she thanked me.
This can't be my life; it feels like I'm watching it happen
to someone else. And yet, I know it's real. I know it's true.
And what started out as a half-assed attempt to appease my
doctor has now affected someone's real life—and potentially
the lives of ten thousand other people who read what I
wrote.
It's too much. It's too big. I can't wrap my mind around it.
I click over to my inbox and start skimming through
again. Many of the messages are from transgender people—
adults and teenagers—expressing their sympathy for Andie
and praising her courage. The others are directed toward
me, and they're split more or less evenly between support
and criticism. DocMama82 tells me in raging capital letters
that I'm unqualified to give advice to anyone, while Outguyin-
Denver says I should pursue therapy as a career. One
anonymous sender claims Andie wouldn't have been beaten
if it weren't for me—but another insists I prevented her
suicide.
But it's the message from DanielD87 that gets to me.
DanielD87: Wow. I almost came out to my dad
because of what you wrote to that girl—but I changed
my mind at the last second, and now I'm glad I did.
I'm not ashamed of what I am, but I'm sorry, if coming
out is gonna get me beat or kicked out of my own
house then it's not worth it. I'd rather stay in the
closet.
Tears blur my vision a second time. I'm enraged at
Andie's father for hurting her, and I'm angry at DanielD87
for letting his fear keep him in the closet—but mostly, I'm
ashamed. Ashamed that, just like Daniel, I'm too afraid to
come out myself. Ashamed that I've been hiding behind this
fake name, pretending to be some kind of counselor, some
kind of activist—when the truth is that I can't even face my
own problems. I'm only a scared kid, just like Andie was.
I read the rest of the messages—all of them. I take
particular satisfaction in the hateful ones; reading them
hurts, and the hurt feels like punishment. Punishment that
maybe I deserve.
Finally, I come to the last message in my inbox. I click it,
and I freeze.
Anonymous: c u at lunch. fuckin tranny
CHAPTER 19
THE NEXT FEW DAYS go by in a dark haze; my sense of
belonging seems to evaporate, along with my confidence.
Sierra Wells glares at me when I walk into AP English, and
Cole, Vickers's stringy-haired teammate, grabs his crotch at
me as I pass him on the way to my locker before Precalc. I
try not to let it get to me, but it does. In fourth period, Casey
Reese tries to cheer me up, but I brush her off; I just want to
be left alone.
I have vague, humorless conversations with Solo, and
when he asks me what's wrong, I just shake my head. Bec
shoots me concerned looks, but she doesn't say anything.
Maybe she's trying to give me space. It's hard to tell,
because I feel so detached, like everything is unreal, and I
can't seem to relieve the pressure that's settled on my
chest.
c u at lunch. fuckin tranny
The message plays over and over in my mind—and
instead of paying attention in class, I'm compulsively trying
to puzzle out who sent it, and why. I figure it comes down to
two scenarios.
Number One: The message is an empty threat by a
stranger. It contains no names, no places, no specifics—just
a vague “c u at lunch.” But everyone eats lunch—so while
it's reasonable that I immediately think of Vickers and his
gang because they've been harassing me in the cafeteria,
there's no actual evidence to suggest that they're involved.
Anyone could have sent that message—in fact, it's probably
the same anon who wrote “your a fag” and “r school doesn't
need another faggot.” In other words, it's just some random
troll trying to scare me. This is the most likely conclusion.
But the one I find myself turning over and over in my mind
is Number Two: It is someone from school—most likely Jim
Vickers. If it's him, it means he's somehow managed to
connect me with my blog—which means he could do much
worse than harass me: He could expose me. The thought
turns my stomach to ice water.
But if he wanted to out me, why wouldn't he just post a
link online, or email it to all his friends? That clearly hasn't
happened, because the looks and comments I receive would
be getting worse instead of slowly tapering off, as they
seem to be doing now.
Still, even though there is absolutely no evidence to
support it—I can't shake the feeling that it is someone at
school. That someone knows. And, if not Jim Vickers, then
who?
I can think of only two other possibilities: Bec and Solo.
And the thought that either of them would out me, even by
accident, let alone threaten me, is so devastating and farfetched
that I don't even want to think about it.
But I do.
I know Bec knows something. She seems to understand
something about me that I've never been able to say out
loud; it's almost as if she's read my diary. She invited me to
the Q, after all. But she's been nothing but supportive; she'd
have to be hiding some serious issues to be capable of
sending a message like that, and I just don't think that's the
case. Could she have let my identity slip out while she was
talking to one of her Hardcore friends? It's possible—but she
hasn't been at school much, and when she is, she seems to
be spending her time with me. I just can't believe it's her.
Which leaves Solo. Just thinking about it makes my heart
sink and my throat constrict. He was the first friend I made
at Park Hills, and even when we had our big disagreement,
he was always straight with me. I can't imagine him typing
out a message like that. But, if he's figured out I'm gender
fluid, could he have told someone about me? Let it slip to
one of the football guys who he thinks might keep his
confidence? It's possible—but it doesn't ring true. It doesn't
seem like him.
Still, I find myself playing back all these possibilities.
To make matters worse, by Monday afternoon, the Andie
Gingham story has been covered by every major gay and
trans rights blog in the country. The Huffington Post does an
editorial on Tuesday, and my blog's readership expands to
fifteen thousand followers. On Wednesday, CNN.com picks
up the story, and I hit thirty thousand.
The focus of the story in the LGBTQ community is Andie's
call for transgender people to come out, while the
mainstream media are selling the drama of a family hate
crime. But regardless of the angle, most of the stories
mention Alix—especially the online ones. Some paint me as
a dangerously irresponsible child who put Andie at risk;
others cast me in a much more positive light, as some kind
of anonymous, gender fluid celebrity.
Meanwhile, I haven't posted at all on Bloglr—each time I
log in, I'm intimidated by the massive increase in followers,
and I log out without even checking my inbox. I feel guilty
for abandoning my followers, and for not reaching out to
Andie when she probably needs it most—but I'm terrified of
the messages that must be waiting for me. Not just
responses to the story, but more threats from the
anonymous sender I've come to think of as my stalker.
Twice, I've sat down at my laptop with the intent of deleting
the whole blog, only to chicken out at the last minute. The
anxiety I've worked so hard to eradicate over the past two
weeks has crept back in, and now I walk around with it
constantly buzzing in the background, a vague tingling in
my cheeks, an unrelenting pressure behind my eyes. I get
very little sleep. My mom asks me several times if I'm
feeling well, and I have to lie and smile. I'm doing my best
to fake it at school, but I know I can't fight the pressure
much longer. Something has to give.
On Thursday, Bec and I eat lunch on the ramp as usual. I
won't go near the cafeteria, so I'm eating the peanut butter
and banana sandwich I packed, while Bec subsists on her
traditional fare of beef jerky and juice boxes. Between bites,
she's her typical, witty self, but today I can't seem to keep
up. I try to nod and laugh in all the right places, but I'm too
distracted; I keep thinking about the message. I keep
thinking maybe I should tell someone.
I set down my sandwich, wipe my hands on a napkin, and
look up at her.
“I want to—” I start to say, just as Bec says:
“So what's going—”
And then we both stop. Neither of us laughs.
“You first,” she says.
I shift on the uncomfortable concrete ramp. “I want to . . .
tell you something.”
Bec nods as if she expects this. “Okay.”
I take a deep breath, open my mouth, shut it. Bec waits
patiently. I want to continue, but it feels like all the saliva in
my mouth has suddenly turned to glue, and I have to
swallow before I can speak again. “I have this . . . I mean,
I've been writing. Online. And . . .”
I stop, because Bec's eyes have wandered over my
shoulder and out of focus; she's no longer listening. I clear
my throat. “Bec, I'm trying to tell you something important.”
“I know,” she says, still looking past me and frowning
slightly. “But maybe you should wait.”
Something inside me recoils, and suddenly I'm certain
Bec thinks I'm about to confess my feelings for her. I'm
convinced that she's interpreted my strange behavior this
week as a sign that I have a massive crush on her, and she
doesn't want to hear me say it. Even through my fog of
confusion and paranoia, the rejection stings like a slap.
And then I hear movement behind me, heavy footsteps
on the rough concrete, and I turn around.
Solo is tramping toward us, pizza box in hand, a
determined expression on his face. He walks to the foot of
the ramp and stands there looking down on us.
“Erik said I might find you here,” he says.
Bec looks up at him. “Chewie,” she says.
Solo frowns.
“What a surprise,” Bec continues. “The League of
Douchebags must keep you very busy playing with balls,
because I haven't seen you around our table much for, oh,
the last year and half.”
Solo glances at me, then back at Bec. “Haven't seen you
there much, either, Francesca.”
Bec stiffens. Her pale face flushes red, and the ring in her
lip twitches. “Don't call me that,” she says. It's almost a
hiss.
“Don't call me Chewie,” Solo says, “and you've got
yourself a deal.” They stare at each other.
Finally, Bec says, “Fine.”
Solo turns to me. “Mind if I join you?”
“Not at all.” I scoot back to make room for him.
He sits, and the three of us form a lopsided triangle on
the ramp. Solo folds his pizza into a grotesque, wedgeshaped,
quadruple-decker cheese and pepperoni sandwich,
then takes an enormous bite.
Bec grimaces. “Disgusting.”
“Delicious,” Solo says around his mouthful of pizza.
I take a bite of my sandwich, Bec tears off a piece of
jerky, and for a minute, everything feels normal. Just three
friends eating lunch on the ramp behind the auditorium. In
that moment, I feel ridiculous for having thought either of
them might be my anonymous hater. Solo swallows a huge
bite of pizza, then fixes his eyes on me, and I feel a question
coming.
“So,” he says. “You've been off in another galaxy this
week. What's up with you?”
I set down my sandwich and wipe my hands on a napkin,
stalling for time. Next to me, Bec shifts on the ramp.
“Sorry,” I say. “There's been a lot going on.”
“I gathered,” Solo says. “Thing is”—he gestures at Bec
with his pizza sandwich, and a pepperoni slips out and drops
into the box; he ignores it—“you're supposed to talk to us.
We're your friends.”
Bec folds her arms. “Don't lump yourself in with me. You
haven't spoken to me outside class for almost two years.”
Solo smiles, retrieves the fallen pepperoni, and stuffs it
into his mouth. “I've actually missed arguing with you, Bec.
Did you know that?”
Bec rolls her eyes. “Of course you've missed it. You
spend your time in a locker room, slapping asses with a herd
of witless sweat rags. You must be dying for intellectual
stimulation.”
Solo shakes his head, but he's smiling. “You're
incredible.” He turns back to me. “Seriously. You've been
distracted. You're not laughing at my hilarious jokes.” He
pauses as if waiting for a smile or a laugh, which I don't
give. “You're acting strange. Even for you.”
I glance at Bec, hoping she'll defend me, but she only
shrugs and says, “He has a point.”
“So,” Solo continues, “what's going on?”
And then both of them are staring at me, waiting for me
to talk. I look down at my lap and wait for the tingling to
come.
As if he senses my turmoil, Solo relents. “Hey, I didn't
mean to add pressure. Talk when you're ready. Just know
we're here for you.”
Bec cocks her head at him like a curious predator.
Solo blinks. “Okay, I'm here for you. I can't speak for
Bec.”
Bec leans back and grips the railing casually. I brace
myself for another argument.
“I'm here in ways you wouldn't understand,” Bec says.
The ferocity in her voice sends a warm sensation through
me; but now, it's Solo's turn to stiffen.
“Why are you so pissed off at me?” he says. “Because I
decided to play football?”
“Because you abandoned your friends to join a bunch of
assholes who shit on the people you used to hang out with.”
“I don't shit on people,” Solo says, defiant.
“But you don't defend them from your ‘friends,' either,”
Bec says, making air quotes. “Or are you telling me that you
and your gang of apes are actually grooming Erik for a spot
on the team?”
Solo folds his arms. “No one groomed me. If Erik wants it,
he has to fight his way in just like I did.”
Bec throws up her hands. “See? This is what I'm talking
about. ‘Fight his way in'? That's not how friends treat each
other. Who would want to fight their way into that?” She
shakes her head. “You don't even see it. It's like you're a
different person.”
Solo regards her with the coldest look I've ever seen on
him. “That's really how it seems?”
“That's how it is,” Bec says.
Solo looks away, nods. “Then I get why you're pissed.”
He gestures toward me, then locks eyes with Bec. “But don't
you think it's telling that the first two people Riley meets,
less than a week after coming to a new school, are you and
me?”
Bec releases her grip on the railing. She glances at me,
then back to Solo, then shrugs.
“I have a proposal,” Solo says, wiping his hands on his
jeans. “The two of you come to my game on Saturday.”
Bec and I look at each other. I picture the two of us,
climbing the bleachers side by side to shouts of “Fag!” or
“Dyke!” Bec blinks, looks at Solo, and lets out a grunt of
contempt.
“Hear me out,” Solo says, raising his hands defensively.
“You can sit by the exit. You can leave at halftime if you
want. But come to the game.” He lets his hands drop to his
lap. “I know you think football is stupid. But I really love it. I
don't love all the people involved—but then, I don't love all
Star Wars fans or all Whovians, either.” Bec and I glance at
each other again. Solo continues, “I think if you watch me
play, maybe you'll understand. And if you don't think
differently about me after that, you don't have to speak to
me ever again.”
“I don't have to speak to you ever again now,” Bec says.
Solo opens his mouth, shuts it. “Fair point. So. What do
you want in return?”
Bec regards Solo coldly, as though sizing him up. After a
moment, she leans forward. “We'll go to the game,” she
says, “but first, you have to come to a club with us.
Tomorrow night.”
My head snaps toward Bec. What is she doing? Agreeing
to go to the game is bad enough, but inviting Solo to the Q?
I open my eyes wide in protest, but Bec's are locked on Solo.
He gestures at his chest. “You want to unleash all this at
a club? Do you have any idea what kind of devastation that
could cause?”
I consider speaking up to tell Solo it's not that kind of
club—but Bec replies before I have the chance.
“Those are my terms,” she says.
Solo glances at me, then turns back to Bec. “Done.” He
holds out one fist. It's like the head of a plump, brown
mallet. Bec stares at it for a moment, then slowly extends
her own. Suddenly, their arms whir into action, fists and
elbows flying in a complex and ridiculous dance. They finish
by touching index fingers and uttering, in unison, “Ouch.”
Solo smiles. Bec tries not to, but I see the telltale twist at
the corner of her mouth.
Solo crams the remains of his lunch into his mouth,
brushes off his hands, and gets to his feet.
“Tomorrow,” he says, the word almost indistinguishable
around his final mouthful of pizza sandwich, and then he
walks off.
CHAPTER 20
ON THE RIDE TO SCHOOL Friday, I notice that my mother
is biting her cuticles again. Dad left for Washington this
morning, last-minute—something about his education bill—
and Mom always worries when he flies. I start to reach out,
like I'm going to pull her hand away from her mouth, but I
think better of it, and let my arm drop into my lap.
“When does he get back?” I say.
Mom, suddenly aware that she's gnawing on her own
flesh, puts her hand back on the steering wheel and glances
over at me, embarrassed. I stare out the windshield and
pretend I don't notice.
“Monday night at the latest, depending on how his
meetings go. He's so tense about this bill.” She starts
chewing her thumb again. The affect makes her look
younger, somehow, an odd contrast with the worry lines
forming on her forehead. I wonder if she secretly loathes
this whole election business as much as I do.
There's another fund-raiser on Tuesday, a big one, and
my attendance is mandatory. Thinking about being in a
huge hotel ballroom with two hundred people, smiling my
campaign smile and wearing what I have to wear, is usually
enough to send me into a spiral of anxiety—but right now,
I've got other problems to distract me.
I don't know why it bothers me so much that Bec invited
Solo to the Q. He already knows I'm different, so I'm not too
worried about him rejecting me. It's just . . . I thought of the
Q as our place. Bec's and mine. And there's also the fact
that it was supposed to be our third date. At least, I thought
it was.
But it's more than that. When I'm with Solo, I tend to
behave more like a guy, because I think that's how he sees
me. But around Bec, I'm inclined to be more . . . I don't
know. Feminine is the word that comes to mind, but it's too
simple a word for what I feel. There aren't words for what I
feel, because all the words were made up by people who
never felt like this.
As if that dilemma weren't enough, I'll be in a room full of
people who expect me to be open about my gender identity.
Regardless of which direction my compass is pointing
tonight—how am I going to satisfy all those different
expectations without acting like a crazy person?
Behind all this, buzzing in the background like an unseen
wasp's nest, is the threat of my anonymous stalker. I start to
turn over the possibilities for the thousandth time—but my
thoughts are interrupted when Mom pulls into the circular
driveway and stops at the curb.
“How about you?” she says, squinting at me. “You're
dreading the fund-raiser, aren't you?”
I open my mouth, then close it again without saying
anything. It's not at all what I was thinking—but she's right.
I am.
“I don't blame you,” she says. “All you can eat at those
things is bread and ketchup.”
I actually laugh out loud.
“We'll get On the Vedge before, so you're not starving.
Okay?”
“Okay,” I say. And then she reaches toward me, and I'm
not sure if she intends to ruffle my hair or pat my cheek.
She ends up sort of gripping my shoulder and giving me a
weird concerned-mom smile.
As she pulls away, I wave good-bye, and she starts
chewing on her thumb again.
I expect Mrs. Crane's classroom to be empty, as it usually is
when I get to school early—so I'm surprised when I open the
door to find Sierra Wells standing at the far end, facing one
of the windows. Her head is down and her phone is pressed
to her ear.
“No,” she says. “Mom. Dad's . . . Okay, I'm not saying he
is. I'm just . . . you're—okay. Fine.”
She ends the call abruptly, drops her phone on the
nearest desk, and buries her face in her hands. I didn't hear
enough to understand what she was talking about, but it's
clear from the way her shoulders are shaking that she's
upset. For a moment, I consider walking right back out the
door—but then Sierra turns around. Her eyes are red and
puffy. When she sees me, she stiffens at once and her
expression hardens into a glare. This is the second time I've
witnessed her in an embarrassing moment—the third, if you
count the time I cut her down in the cafeteria—and I regret
it immediately.
“Sorry,” I say, taking a step back. She sniffs, looks away.
“Are you . . . okay?” For a second, I think she might actually
answer me, but then she snatches her phone, drops it into
her purse, and heads for the door.
“Mind your own business,” she says. Then, under her
breath, “Fucking freak.”
As she storms out, I notice she's scratching vigorously at
her wrist.
I drop into my usual seat, and not long after that, the
classroom begins to fill up. Solo comes in and starts trying
to tease information out of me about “the club” we'll be
hitting tonight. I deflect his questions with humor, but I'm
distracted; I'm still thinking about walking in on Sierra's
phone call, and her obsessive scratching. I almost tell Solo
about it—I want to—but something stops me. Maybe I'm just
being polite, or maybe I'm scared of what Sierra will do if
she finds out, but I think it's something else. I think I just
sort of understand what it's like to have a fucked-up secret,
and I don't want to be the one who tells someone else's. Not
even hers.
When I get home from school, there are still a few hours left
before I have to get ready for tonight, so I head straight
upstairs and fire up my laptop.
I haven't posted since I received the “c u at lunch”
message; I haven't had the courage. But over the past
week, the story of what happened to Andie Gingham has
become a national news item. And with all the attention
driving my follower count into the stratosphere, I feel
pressure to respond. To get back on Bloglr and address my
part in what happened.
It's still hard for me to believe that something I wrote
created so many ripples—ripples that became waves—but
whether I believe it or not, I have to deal with the
consequences. At least, that's what I think Doctor Ann would
say.
My computer emits its welcoming chime, and I go to
Bloglr and type in my username and password below the
smiling frog logo. My finger pauses above the keyboard, and
I feel my heart skip. I take one deep breath, and then hit
Enter.
MESSAGES: 500
FOLLOWERS: 35,144
This time, I'm prepared for the ridiculously high numbers.
I manage, as Bec would put it, to contain my overdeveloped
sense of drama, so there is no gasping or jaw dropping or
anything like that.
My finger moves to click on my inbox, but I stop.
Whatever is inside—hate or threats or gratitude—it has no
bearing on what I want to say.
I click on New Post instead.
NEW POST: COMING TO TERMS
OCTOBER 19, 4:46 PM
Hi.
First, I want you to know I haven't opened a single
message since the night I read Andie's story in The
Advocate. I haven't even logged in until now. I
apologize for my silence. I just got overwhelmed—by
the massive response, sure, but also by little things in
my own life.
It's easy to sound wise on a blog, easy to engage in
clever banter and dispense advice to anonymous
strangers. It costs me nothing.
Andie's stand cost her plenty. It almost cost her
everything.
NOW PLAYING: “Low Point” by Trespassers
William
Andie, I'm so sorry you were hurt. And I'm sorry if
anything I said put you at risk. I only wanted to help.
And I'm so grateful that you're going to be okay.
I don't know how else to respond or what else to
say. I'm humbled by your gratitude, but I don't know
what to do with it. I'm inspired by your bravery, but
I'm not ready to match it. I feel like a coward, hiding
on the internet behind a fake username. But I'm not
just hiding on this blog—I'm hiding in real life, too. I
don't have the guts to come out like you did. I'm
afraid.
So, right now, nobody knows who I am. Nobody but
strangers.
But when my time comes, I'll try to summon the
kind of courage you showed us.
I click Post and slam the laptop shut. I think about how
brave Andie was to come out to the world, and what she got
as a reward for that act of courage: a nation of supporters.
An extended family of people who believe in her, even
admire her. I have that, too, from my blog followers—but in
an artificial, anonymous way, as Alix. If I want the real thing
—the support, the admiration—I'll have to do what Andie
did. And I don't know if I can.
A cold feeling settles in the center of my chest. The only
person in my life who knows who I really am is Doctor Ann,
and my parents pay her to care.
For the first time, I consider the consequences of coming
out. School would be unbearable, obviously. The taunting I
get just for looking different is a drop in the ocean compared
with the torrent of discrimination I would suffer for being
openly gender fluid. Bec would stay friends with me—I'm
almost sure she would. But Solo? I don't know. He tolerates
my weirdness, but if I were to come out, would he be willing
to endure the harassment from his team?
My mom would accept me, I think. It might take her a
while to wrap her old-fashioned mind around it, but she
would come around. My father, on the other hand—what
would it do to him? He's worked so hard to carve out his
spot in this ultraconservative county; a breaking story about
his secretly gender fluid kid might be enough to cost him
reelection.
Then I think about my stalker, and a shiver goes through
me. The thought of being exposed, of being outed before
I'm ready, terrifies me. It makes me want to shut down my
blog and just go back to trying to blend in.
But there's another voice in my head—maybe it's Andie
Gingham's voice, or Doctor Ann's. Or maybe it's my own.
The voice is telling me that all those things aren't reasons,
just excuses.
And maybe this isn't only about me anymore.
CHAPTER 21
DESPITE MY PROTESTS ABOUT GETTING carsick, I end
up in the backseat of Solo's hatchback on the way to LA—
windows down, music up, and heater cranked to full blast.
For the first ten minutes, Solo and Bec fight for control of
the stereo; Solo wants to play XTC, but Bec has just
acquired an Against Me! bootleg that she insists is “the
proper soundtrack for tonight's festivities.” Which prompts
Solo to assert that he doesn't actually know what “tonight's
festivities” are, which leads to an argument over whether
Solo ought to know where he's driving us. I had almost
forgotten he doesn't know what the Q is.
That's when the vague nausea of carsickness gives way
to stomach-dropping dread. Even if I don't say a word
tonight—even if I sit quietly and just listen to everybody else
in the group—Solo will know. Maybe not the specifics, but
he'll know something. Of course, he must suspect
something already; our talk at the Reagan Years proves that.
But when he sees the whole picture—when he finds out
what I am—what if he's repulsed? My guts churn again.
Solo turns down the music and glances at me in the
rearview. “You okay?”
“Yeah,” I say. “Just tired.”
“We're almost to the exit. You need me to pull over? You
want a 7UP or something?”
I shake my head.
“All right.” Solo turns the music back up, but not as loud
this time. A moment later, I feel a hand touch my shoulder.
It's Bec's.
I sit up when we pull into the parking lot. My temples and
upper lip are slick with sweat—whether from nerves or from
Solo's heater, I'm not sure—but the cool air feels good when
I step out of the car, and my stomach settles a little.
“Where the hell are we?” Solo says, glancing around at
the empty buildings.
“West Hollywood,” Bec says. “Almost Beverly Hills.”
“Are you sure?” He glances down the alley, then frowns
at Bec. “It doesn't look very safe.”
Bec looks him up and down. “I'll protect you.”
Solo laughs. Bec smiles.
We start across the parking lot, Bec to my left, taking her
short, quick strides, and Solo ambling along on my right.
Suddenly, I don't know how to walk. Almost sixteen years of
doing it without thinking seem to vanish in an instant, and
now I'm just putting one foot in front of the other in a series
of awkward, robotic lunges. Part of me wants to lean toward
Bec and take her hand, and the other part wants to jam my
hands in my pockets and match long strides with Solo.
Instead, my arms just swing dead at my sides, making me
feel like some sort of ballerina ape. I'm so distracted and
self-conscious that I catch the toe of my Chucks on a
pothole and barely stop myself from eating asphalt.
“You all right?” Solo asks.
“I'm cool,” I reply. My voice comes out oddly low, as
though I'm imitating some rapper. Bec shoots me a
bemused glance. I blush and look away.
This is what I was afraid of: being caught in some kind of
relational limbo between masculine and feminine. I close my
eyes for a second and try to sense which direction my
internal compass is pointing—but it's as if there's too much
interference, and I can't get a clear reading. So instead, I
concentrate on walking and try to pretend nothing is
happening.
Kanada greets us at the door. She performs an elaborate
European cheek-kissing ritual on Bec, then collects me in a
tight hug as though she's known me for years, her strong,
lean arms almost squeezing the breath out of me. At first,
it's overwhelming, and I feel a claustrophobic instinct to
withdraw; but after a moment, I find myself hugging her
back. I can't actually remember the last time someone
hugged me like this, and I don't want to let go. I feel a pang
of disappointment when she releases me and turns to Solo,
her smile widening even further.
“Well, look at this hunk of pure love,” she says, extending
her hand. “I'm Kanada.”
“Solo,” he says. And then, instead of shaking her hand,
he bends deftly at the waist and plants a kiss on it.
“Enchanted.”
Kanada squeals with delight and throws an arm around
Solo's neck. “Ladies best back off. Her Majesty claims this
one for her own.”
Solo smiles, and I think I see a tinge of red on his brown
cheeks.
Kanada leads us in, and we gravitate toward the table in
the back as the rest of the group begins to show up. Bec
goes from member to member, exchanging hugs and
making small talk—she's almost a different person here, so
much more social and outgoing than she is at school. Solo
and I hang out by the refreshments table, him gnawing on a
stale grocery-store cookie, me sipping at a Styrofoam cup of
coffee. When the room starts to fill up, Bec comes back and
ushers us to the ring of chairs in the center, and we sit.
Mike/Michelle is dressed as a man tonight, in gray slacks
and a white dress shirt, her hair parted on the side and
combed back. “Welcome, everyone,” she says. “In case
you've never seen me present as a man before, this is what
Mike used to wear to work.” She strikes an elegant pose, to
which the group responds with scattered laughter and
applause. Mike/Michelle smiles. “We have some new faces
tonight, but don't worry, I'm not going to single anyone out.
So if you want to introduce yourself, just raise your hand
and say hello.”
I glance at Solo, wondering how he feels at this point. He
sits quietly, observing the group's members and clearly
doing his best not to stare. He probably looks exactly how I
looked last week.
The cast is pretty much the same: Kanada sits next to
Mike/Michelle, and then there's Chris, the trans man with
the combat boots. Next to him is Herman, the good-looking
guy who was holding hands with Bennie last week—but
there's no sign of Bennie herself. Morgan—the group
member with the awesome green hair—takes the chair to
my left. I recognize the fine-featured face and baggy flight
jacket from last week, but this time, only a few strands of
that shocking green hair are visible, peeking out the back of
a baseball cap with a “T” embroidered above the bill. I'm
trying not to stare like I did at my first meeting, but I think I
detect a hint of lip gloss.
Mike/Michelle rubs her hands together. “Okay then. Let's
have our opening words.” She reaches out to Kanada, and
then everybody clasps hands. It's kind of cheesy, and I
glance around to make a face at Solo, but he's solemn as a
choirboy. So is Bec, for that matter. I wipe the smirk off my
face and turn to look at Mike/Michelle. She closes her eyes
and tilts her face toward the ceiling.
“Tonight we come together as a community—not to focus
on our flaws, but to celebrate our uniqueness. To share our
pain, our joy, and our love, and to create a better
tomorrow.”
For a moment it's quiet, and I have to stifle the urge to
say, “Amen.” Then Mike/Michelle looks up and there's a
subdued round of applause.
“First, a few announcements. Herman tells me that
Bennie couldn't be here tonight because she's meeting with
her soon-to-be ex-wife and divorce attorney. So let's all take
a moment to send her loving thoughts.”
We clasp hands again, and everyone is quiet for a
moment.
“We also want to congratulate Kanada, whose daughter
was accepted into the very prestigious All Southern Youth
Orchestra!” More applause. Kanada wipes tears from her
eyes and waves at the group to stop. Mike/Michelle
continues. “There's another person I'd like all of us to
acknowledge, but she's not officially a member of our group.
I'm sure you all must have heard about Andie Gingham by
now? The trans girl in Oklahoma?”
A chill runs down my spine. Everyone nods.
“Good. Because I want to acknowledge Andie. She didn't
back down or hide, even in the face of rejection by her own
family. Even in the face of violence. She could have let it
stop her, and no one in this room would have blamed her.”
“No way,” Kanada says. There are murmurs of assent.
“But she didn't,” Mike/Michelle continues. “She took the
beating and then came out again—to the world. She took a
stand not just for herself, but for every one of us. And I want
to thank her for that.”
Even though there are fewer than a dozen people in this
little room, the sound of applause bouncing off the concrete
walls is almost deafening.
“And finally,” Mike/Michelle says as the applause dies, “I
want to thank you for agreeing to switch nights this week.
As you know, Trans Health Con is coming up in a few weeks.
Remind me, who's coming? Raise your hand if you're
planning to attend.”
Mike/Michelle, Kanada, Herman, and Chris raise their
hands.
“Bennie's going, too,” Herman says.
“Oh, good,” Mike/Michelle says. “For those of you who
haven't registered yet, there are still spots open. I know you
would find it inspiring. In any case, the reason I had to
switch nights is that there's a planning session tomorrow.
They're holding a panel about online community building at
the conference, and the chairperson asked me to be the
mediator!”
This time there are cheers mixed in with the applause.
Mike/Michelle smiles broadly and raises a hand to quiet
the group. “Okay, okay, thank you! Wow.” She laughs. “Now,
if nobody objects, I'll start the sharing.”
“Share away, my love,” Kanada says.
“As you can see, I didn't have time to change before
tonight's meeting. I went to my son's debate competition,
and I have an agreement with him to present as a man
when we're together in public.”
Everyone in the room nods. Even Solo. I wonder what
he's thinking right now.
“Well, I just—I just wanted to share that I'm bothered by
it. Right now.” She puts a fist to her mouth as if to cough.
Kanada takes her other hand, and then Mike/Michelle
continues. “I've been out for years, but it's still a struggle.
And I was really looking forward to wearing this periwinkle
top Kanada bought me.”
“And you should've seen her in it,” says Kanada. “I mean,
damn.”
We laugh.
Mike/Michelle smiles. “My son placed third, by the way.
Okay. Who's next?”
For a moment, everyone just looks around at everyone
else—and then Morgan breaks the silence.
“I know I don't talk much,” Morgan says, and I hear the
hint of a drawl in that alto voice. “But I guess I'll go.”
“That's great,” Mike/Michelle says. “What's on your
mind?”
“Well,” Morgan says, glancing around the group, “y'all
know I came out here from Texas to get away from my
family.”
Most of the group nods their heads.
“When I left, my dad pretty much disowned me. I didn't
actually come out, not in so many words, but to my family,
moving to Cali and being genderqueer are pretty much the
same thing.”
A few people laugh, but not me; I'm transfixed.
Genderqueer. I realize this may be the first person like me—
or close to being like me—that I've ever met. I look at the
trace of lip gloss, the green hair protruding from the back of
the baseball hat—and all at once, I understand what it must
be like for someone else to see me for the first time. When I
saw Morgan, my first instinct was to wonder: Boy or girl?
And if I saw me, with my untamed midlength hair and my
ambiguous wardrobe, I'd probably wonder the same thing. I
think of all my mother's scrutinizing looks, all the lectures
about appearance I've endured from my dad. Were they
really judging—or just trying to figure me out? The idea
reverberates in my head like a low gong, drowning out all
other thoughts.
“Anyway,” Morgan continues, “I've been here about three
months. Haven't heard nothing from my family till last
week.” Morgan pauses. When he—or she—speaks again, I
expect that calm, alto voice to break, but it doesn't. “I got a
letter from Momma. She told me I ought to get my scrawny
ass to church and pray to Jesus I don't get corrupted by
y'all.”
This time I do laugh, along with everybody else.
“It wasn't the best thing, but . . . well, she wrote. So
that's good. Right?”
“Yes it is, precious,” Kanada says.
Morgan glances around the room. “Anyway. I just wanted
to say I'm glad y'all are here.”
Herman shares next, something about Bennie and the
turmoil around her divorce, but I'm not really listening—I'm
watching Morgan listen. Even after hearing him—or her—
speak, I have no idea which pronoun to use, which gender
label to apply. And I realize that, while I tend to think of
myself as drifting between the two poles of male and
female, that's my individual perception—and, in some ways,
it's too binary for a person like Morgan, who seems to hover
somewhere in the middle, or maybe doesn't envision gender
as a spectrum at all. It's weird to think that now I'm the one
clinging to old ideas. Just then, Morgan catches me staring
and flashes me a brief, tight-lipped smile. I smile back.
As the applause dies following Herman's sharing, I notice
Mike/Michelle looking in my direction.
“Riley,” she says. “Welcome back. How are you tonight?”
My heart gives a throb of protest. Mike/Michelle must
sense my distress, because her face falls, and I get the
feeling she's searching for a way to shift the focus to
someone else. In my peripheral vision, I see Solo turn his
head toward me.
“I'm okay,” I say.
More heads turn, and now all the eyes are on me. But it's
not like the Gauntlet, not like walking through the halls at
school; those eyes are invasive and penetrating. These are
curious and patient. These people genuinely want to hear
what I have to say.
Mike/Michelle leans back in her chair as if to give me
more room to breathe. “Would you like to share?”
I nod. “Hey, everybody, I'm Riley.”
The room responds with nods and hellos. My heart is now
a lump in my throat, and my breath is shallow. I talk anyway.
“I'm sort of . . . fighting off a mini anxiety attack right now,”
I say.
“Do you want some time?” Mike/Michelle asks. “Kanada
can take you out for a little fresh air if that would help.”
“No.” I'm surprised at the strength of my voice. “I think I
just need to sort of push through, if that's okay.”
“You bet it's okay,” Kanada says. “We're here for you.”
The group murmurs their agreement. I close my eyes and
take three long breaths. I look up and glance at Bec. She
nods encouragement.
“I was inspired by what Mike/Michelle said, about having
to dress a certain way around her family. Such a normal
thing, for us, feeling out of place. I feel that way all the time.
Like I'm from some other planet, you know? Like my soul
was stuffed into the wrong body and then dropped off here
by mistake.”
The group responds with murmurs of assent, and Morgan
nods. But Mike/Michelle narrows her eyes just a little. Her
gaze is curious, but intense. I swallow. Why is she looking at
me like that? I look away and try to pick up the thread of
what I was saying.
“I think everybody has moments like that. It's not just us.
Everyone feels lost. Everyone is just . . . looking. Looking for
somewhere to stand. For someone to stand next to.” I look
at Bec. “And even though we're on the outside of
everything, maybe we're the lucky ones. Because we
already have that.”
Bec nods slowly, but doesn't smile. I look around the
circle. Kanada is nodding, too, her mouth tight. Chris wipes
at the corners of his eyes with his sleeve.
Then I glance at Solo. His head is inclined, his brow
furrowed. I realize I'm holding my breath.
“I'm gender fluid.”
I hear the words echo off the concrete before I realize
I've spoken them. The whole room seems to freeze in place.
For a long moment, Solo is still as a statue. Finally, he
glances around the room and then leans closer, as if it's just
the two of us having a conversation.
“I figured it was something like that,” he says. “I've sort
of been doing homework on gender stuff.” He shakes his
head. “God, I hope my mom never looks at my browser
history.”
I laugh, and that seems to give everyone else permission
to laugh, and they do. Bec does smile now, then turns and
punches Solo's arm. A few people applaud, and Herman
blows me a kiss. Kanada stands up and gives me a longarmed
hug. I hug her back as hard as I can, and tears creep
into the corners of my eyes. I've never been so accepted by
a group of strangers—or friends, for that matter. I've never
felt so . . . normal. And, other than some raw nerves—
understandable after sharing something so personal—my
body feels amazing. Whole. Almost like I belong in it. It's the
first time I can remember not feeling a single trace of
dysphoria; but, rather than exhilarating me, the realization
kind of depresses me, because I think about how much time
I've spent feeling wrong.
When the meeting is over, a few people come up to me and
congratulate me on coming out. I smile and try to be polite,
but I'm sort of emotionally exhausted, and I'm sure I seem
distant. Kanada stands near the refreshments table with
Herman and Solo, having an animated conversation I can't
hear. I look around for Morgan, but he or she must have
slipped out as soon as the meeting ended. I wish I could do
the same. Bec seems to sense my fatigue, because she
leans in and whispers, “I'll get Solo,” then crosses the room
to retrieve him.
“Hi, Riley.”
The voice comes from behind, and I turn to find
Mike/Michelle walking toward me.
“Hi,” I say.
“Can we talk for a minute?”
“Sure.”
She leads me away from the ring of chairs. “I want to ask
you something. But if you don't want to answer, it's okay.
And I won't share this information with anyone unless you
specifically ask me to. Okay?”
I don't know what she wants—but the way she's asking is
making me nervous. I glance around the room to make sure
no one can overhear. “Okay.”
“What you said tonight, about feeling like your soul had
been stuffed into the wrong body. That was . . . very moving.
It reminded me of something Alix wrote on Hiding and Other
Social Skills. Do you know that blog?”
My breath catches in my throat. So that's why she
cocked her head at me when I said that. She recognized it
from my blog. She knows.
After a moment, she continues. “I think you're Alix. I
think you're the one who responded to Andie Gingham. And
I would really like to know if I'm right.”
I don't say anything, but the heat rushing up my neck
tells me that my skin and my blood vessels have already
spoken on my behalf.
Mike/Michelle nods. “Okay,” she says. “You don't have to
say anything. This is between you and me. I am not in the
business of telling other people's secrets. But I have an
invitation for you. Or, maybe it's a request. You don't have
to decide tonight, but I'll need your answer soon, because
it's in two weeks.”
I swallow hard. “What's in two weeks?”
Mike/Michelle clasps her hands, almost like she's praying.
“I'd like you to be on my panel at Trans Health Con.”
At first, I mistake the sensation that rushes through me
for anxiety—but there's a hopeful edge to the feeling, a
lightness instead of the usual darkness. I realize it's not
panic I'm feeling; it's excitement.
“Riley, you have a gift for words. The way you write, and
the way you speak—you have the ability to move people.
You saw it tonight, the way the group responded to you. The
way I responded. The way Andie Gingham responded.” She
puts a hand on her chest. “I know you haven't come out to
your parents yet, and you would probably want to do that
before you spoke at the Con. I know you're only sixteen, and
I know it seems like I'm asking an awful lot. But, Riley—
there are so many more Andie Ginghams out there. And
they need to hear someone like you.”
I blink at her. The blood rushing past my ears sounds like
an army marching on dry leaves. My mouth is dry.
Come out to my parents. Speak in public. In two weeks.
“Please consider it.”
I feel my head nod as though someone is pulling an
unseen string. “I will.”
CHAPTER 22
ON SATURDAY MORNING I WAKE up to the sound of
knocking on my bedroom door. I grab my phone and check
the time: it's almost nine thirty.
“Riley, are you awake?” It's my dad's voice.
“I am now,” I say, sitting up and rubbing the sleep out of
my eyes. “Come on in.”
He opens the door and takes a step in. Standing there in
his blue pajamas and bathrobe, he looks like a dad from
some old TV show. He sips from his University of Notre
Dame coffee mug and surveys my bedroom over the rim of
his reading glasses as if he's never been in here before.
“I didn't know you were home,” I say.
“Got in late last night, decided to sleep in.” He walks
over to my record collection and starts flipping through
albums.
“How did your meetings go?” I ask.
A giant grin spreads across his face. “Better than I'd
hoped. The teachers' unions are on board, and that makes a
big difference. There's still a long way to go, but we might
just pull this thing off.”
“And that's good for the campaign?”
“It's good either way.”
“That's awesome.” I smile at him, and he smiles back. He
pulls out London Calling by the Clash, flips it over, and starts
reading the back cover.
It's been a long time since my dad came into my room
while I was still in bed—and longer since I felt so . . . I don't
know, normal about it. I'm usually pretty self-conscious in
the morning, at least until I've had a chance to read my
internal compass and figure out how I want to present
myself. But right now, it's not so bad. I'm already feeling
extremely guyish—like the needle is all the way on M—and I
tend to feel less vulnerable on guy days.
“So,” Dad says, putting the record back, “your mother
and Shelly are off to some sort of baking expo and then to
the spa.” He puts one finger on the turntable and gives it a
spin. “And I'm going to get my lazy butt dressed and head
into the office. I have a thousand emails to catch up on,
then meetings this afternoon.” He glances up at me. “Want
to come with me? We could get bagels.”
I can tell he really wants me to go—but I haven't spent
much time alone with my father. I don't know what we'd say
to each other.
“No pressure,” he says, taking an intentionally
nonchalant sip of coffee. “I was just thinking you could keep
me company. Bring your laptop. Do some homework. When
you get bored, Elias can take you home.” I consider. The
game isn't until five thirty, and I was planning to do some
reading anyway. Dad stares down into his now-empty coffee
cup. “I want to pick new walk-in music for Tuesday.
Something . . . different. I could use your expertise.”
As usual, he's reserved a carrot to dangle in front of me—
I've been bugging him to let me pick his walk-in music since
he announced his candidacy last year.
“Can we get On the Vedge instead of bagels?”
He looks up at me, and I can tell he's pleased. “You've
got yourself a deal.”
An hour later, Dad's bald and burly head of security, Elias,
picks us up in his black SUV. When I get in the car, he hands
me a paper bag emblazoned with the On the Vedge logo. It
smells amazing.
“You rule,” I say.
“Good to see you too, Riley. How's school?”
“It needs drastic reforms, Elias.”
He laughs. “To the office, Congressman?”
Dad nods. “To the office.”
Dad spends the morning behind his giant mahogany
desk, catching up on emails. I sit at the small conference
table by the window, trying to get through Act 2 of The
Crucible. But, after rereading the same page three times, I
give up and start clicking around the internet.
Shortly before noon, Dad stands, takes off his reading
glasses, and rubs his eyes. “If I read one more email, my
eyeballs are going to pop out of my head.” He walks over to
where I'm sitting, plops down in the chair next to me, and
puts his feet up on the conference table.
“You're in a weird mood,” I say.
“I'm in a good mood. You're just not used to it.” He
smiles. “So, what do you think for walk-in music?”
I bring up my list. “I figured you'd want something
education-themed.”
“Good thinking.”
“How about ‘Another Brick in the Wall'?”
Dad frowns. “Isn't that the ‘we don't need your
education' one?”
I smirk.
“Very funny.”
“Not safe enough? Okay. How about . . . ‘ABC' by the
Jackson Five.”
He wrinkles his nose. “No, come on. That's too . . . I'm, I
don't know, I'm edgier than that,” he says.
“Edgier?” I say, unable to keep the sarcasm out of my
voice.
“Yeah. Edgier.” Dad gives me his best TV face, cocks his
head at an angle, and says, “It's time for an edgier Orange
County. I'm Sean Cavanaugh, and I approved this message.”
I roll my eyes. And then my dad emits this weird bark of
laughter.
“Sean Cavanaugh,” he says in a caricature of his
congressman voice, “your edgy-cation candidate.”
And he starts to laugh, a deep, booming chuckle, until his
eyes get moist. At first, I just shake my head, but I feel a
smile forming. This seems to egg my father on, because
now he's leaning forward, slapping the conference table
with one hand, laughing so hard he's gasping.
“Call Shelly!” He motions helplessly at the phone. “We're
changing the posters!”
Now I'm laughing, too—not a full-on belly laugh, but the
closest thing I've had in a long time. It feels good—like
something that's been building up inside me finally finds a
vent, and the pressure lessens.
Finally, Dad manages to get control. “Okay,” he says,
wiping away tears and putting his glasses back on.
“Seriously. Next suggestion?”
“How about ‘School's Out' by Alice Cooper? That's your
generation.”
“Wrong message,” he says. Then, he sits up straighter.
“Wait . . . the Ramones!”
I frown. “Which song?”
“You know . . .” And then he sings in a horrible imitation
of Joey Ramone. “Rock, rock, rock, rock, rockin' the high
school!”
“Oh my God, Dad. Please don't ever do that again.”
He feigns a hurt look.
“Now I know where my lack of musical talent comes
from.”
“All right, all right. But seriously, that's an upbeat song.
It's sort of silly, but it's catchy, and it's education-related.”
“Um, have you ever listened to the words?” I bring up the
lyrics in a new browser tab and angle the laptop toward him
so he can read. He scans them, frowns.
“Wow,” he says, sitting back in his chair. “I almost pulled
a Reagan.”
Oddly, I immediately picture Solo inhaling his chocolate
malted. “As in President Reagan?”
Dad nods. “He used ‘Born in the USA' during his
campaign. Springsteen was huge, and he thought it
sounded patriotic, but it's actually a protest song. Made
himself look like an idiot in front of the whole country.” Dad
sits back and gazes out the window, tapping absently on the
tabletop with his index finger. “I guess I'm pretty out of
touch.” His voice sounds soft and uncertain, not like him at
all—at least, not like any part of him I'm allowed to see. He
turns his head away from the window and looks at me, and
it's as if he's seeing me for the first time since I was a little
kid. We sit there for a while, looking at each other. Then his
eyes drop to his lap and he clears his throat—but before he
can say anything, the phone rings. He reaches for the
extension on the conference table.
“Cavanaugh.” He looks at me, mouths the word edgy,
and gives me a thumbs up. I shake my head at him. “Yeah,
okay,” he says, glancing down at his watch. “I'll still be here.
Okay.” He hangs up. “Superintendent Clemente will be here
in five. You want to stay, or . . .”
“No, that's okay. I need to head home. I'm going to the
football game tonight.”
Dad raises his eyebrows. “Really?”
“Yes, Dad, really.”
“With whom?”
“My friend Bec. We're going to go watch Solo play.”
Dad frowns, folds his arms. “Bec is a boy?”
I turn the laptop back toward me. “Bec is a girl, Dad.”
“Oh, right. So, are you two . . .”
“I don't know yet,” I say, feeling my cheeks get hot. Dad
cocks his head, and I can almost see the wheels turning.
My breath quickens. Is this my opening? My moment to
tell him? I don't feel ready—and yet, I've known the truth for
a long time now. I've been in therapy for months. I've come
out to two friends, half a dozen strangers, and the entire
internet. For Christ's sake, I've been invited to speak about
it publicly in two weeks. If I'm not ready now—will I ever be?
I open my mouth to speak—and then all at once, I
change the subject. “You want to finish picking a song?”
“Yes. Absolutely,” Dad says. He sounds as relieved as I
feel. “What else have you got?”
“Well,” I say, turning back to the screen and swallowing
the lump in my throat, “this one isn't about education, not
at all, really, and it's kind of weird. But it might work.”
“What is it?”
I bring up the lyrics and turn the laptop back toward him.
“‘Changes.' David Bowie.”
He pulls the computer closer and scrolls down, reading. A
faint smile turns up the corners of his mouth—it's the same
smile I have—and he nods.
“It's perfect.”
The phone bleeps, and Elias's voice comes through the
speakerphone. “Congressman, Superintendent Clemente is
here.”
“I'll be right out,” he says, and punches the hang-up
button. He turns back to me, folding his hands. “Okay, well.
Thanks for the song.”
“Don't thank me. Thank Mr. Bowie.”
We stand, and he waits till I've packed up my laptop and
tossed my copy of The Crucible into my bag. Then I follow
him through the door into the outer office.
“Felicia,” he says, striding across the small lobby and
extending his hand. I walk behind him.
“Good to see you back on the home front,
Congressman,” she says. She's tall, and the heels she's
wearing make her even taller than my father; I can only see
her shiny black hair over the top of his head. I step out from
behind my dad, and the superintendent looks from him to
me with a bright smile. “And this must be your . . .” She
pauses for a split second—but in that time, I see her smile
falter just slightly.
Dad, being the consummate politician, jumps in a
millisecond later, defusing the awkward moment with his
usual charm. “Riley,” he says, “this is Superintendent
Clemente. She's here to hold me accountable for all my
campaign promises.”
She recovers her smile immediately, but I know my dad
noticed.
“Nice to meet you, Superintendent Clemente,” I say. We
shake hands. Her grip is weak.
Dad turns to me. He smiles, but it's that no-teeth smile,
and his eyes have gone distant. It's as though I've already
left the room, or as though he wishes I had. The warmth of
the last few minutes evaporates.
“Have a good time at the game, Riley. Be safe. Text
before you head home.”
“Okay,” I say, and then Elias ushers me out of the office,
and the door closes behind us.
CHAPTER 23
THAT AFTERNOON, I TRY TO forget the uncomfortable
exchange with Superintendent Clemente so I can study, but
I can't. God, why couldn't we have run into one of his junior
aides, or the janitor in his building? Why did it have to be
the effing superintendent?
I play back the moment right before Elias took me home,
remembering the cold tone of Dad's voice; it was like he
was trying to distance himself from me. As though, instead
of being his kid, I'm some politically dangerous thing that he
needs to disassociate from.
I slam my book shut, slide off my bed, and get ready for
the game.
To my relief, there's no sign of the scruffy drummer when
I pick up Bec at Bullet Hole. We drive to school—which feels
strange on a Saturday. The lot is almost full when we arrive,
and I have to park the minivan at the far end by the tennis
courts. I shut off the engine, and we just sit there for a
moment, neither of us eager to get out and face the chaos
of the game.
“Do we have to go?” I say.
Bec glances out the window, then back at me. “If we
leave now, we could be in Mexico before the game ends. No
one would know we were gone.”
“We could take on fake names.”
“We could wear sombreros.”
“And six-guns.” I smile. Bec smiles back. Then she
reaches for the door handle.
We get out of the car and walk toward the field slowly,
delaying the moment when we have to join the noisy throng
on the other side of the bleachers. We're passing an old
green pickup truck when Bec stops.
“I just . . . ,” she begins, then pauses. “I just wanted to
tell you that I'm totally cool with it. With you being gender
fluid, I mean.”
Air rushes out of my lungs in a sort of dry, silent sob—
and it's like I've been holding my breath for as long as I can
remember, and now I can finally breathe.
Bec continues, “I mean, it probably goes without saying.
But I wanted to—”
“No, I'm glad you said it. I'm . . . glad.” I laugh. “Gladdyglad-
glad-glad. I think I caught your speech disease.”
“Monkey, monkey, monkey?” Bec says.
“Yeah, that one.”
She shakes her head. “On the contrary. What you said
last night, about having somewhere to stand and someone
to stand with . . . you have a thing with words.”
I blush so deeply that it shows in my reflection in the
truck's window. “I have a thing?”
“You have a thing.”
“That is a supreme compliment coming from the girl who
coined the phrase ‘slapping asses with a herd of witless
sweat rags.'”
Bec smirks. “I have my moments.”
Just then, a voice comes over the PA, announcing,
“Kickoff in five minutes!”
But I don't really want to move; I like standing here in the
parking lot, talking to this strange, attractive girl. I try to
think of something to say to postpone the inevitable end of
this moment we're having, whatever it is.
“I told my dad about you today,” I say.
“Oh yeah?”
I nod. “He wanted to know if you were a boy or a girl.”
She cocks her head at me.
“I think he was trying to figure out if it was a date.” I feel
my cheeks go hot again.
Bec reaches out, takes my hand, and interlaces her
fingers with mine. “Come on.”
We're still holding hands when we queue up to buy
tickets, and a few people shoot glances in our direction. I
feel a strange pang of pride and grip Bec's hand tighter; her
touch is at once reassuring and exhilarating. We get our
tickets and then stop at the snack counter, where Bec
purchases a soda roughly the size of a bathtub. I smile when
she grabs two straws.
The first few rows of bleachers are completely packed, so
we mount the steps and head for the top. The crowd is loud
and the PA is blaring; I'm not surprised when I feel a buzz
starting up in the back of my head.
We make it halfway to the top before the harassment
starts.
“Which one's the dude?”
I turn my head, and my stomach goes cold. Jim Vickers
sits five feet away from me, one arm still bound in a yellow
cast, the other draped around Sierra's shoulders. She says
nothing, but doesn't take her eyes off me.
Seated between us and Vickers are the bespectacled
redheaded kid and Cole, the broad-shouldered football
player with long stringy hair. He should be on the field; I
wonder what he did to get suspended.
Vickers points at me. “That one's got to be the dude. No
tits.”
Cole laughs. “The other one doesn't have any tits either.”
The redheaded kid pushes up his glasses and looks away.
Bec squeezes my hand tighter, and we start to move
past.
“That's right. Keep walking, queers,” Vickers says.
Bec stops, turns, and looks at him.
Vickers says, “What are you looking at?”
Bec smirks and says, “A very wet boy.”
Vickers's smile wilts. Bec squeezes her soda cup until the
lid pops off—and then she takes a step forward and upends
it over Jim Vickers, sending sixty-four ounces of ice-cold
purple drink cascading into his lap.
He leaps to his feet, gasping. “What the hell?”
“Oops,” Bec says, and drops the cup.
Sierra stands up. There's a purple stain splashed across
the thighs of her jeans, and her face is red with fury. “You
little bitch,” she says, taking a step toward Bec, but Vickers
grabs her arm and pulls her back down to the bench.
“What's going on here?” says a low voice from behind,
and Bec and I turn simultaneously. Mr. Brennan stands a few
steps below, dressed in a Park Hills High sweatshirt and
jeans, a frown of disapproval peeking out from under his
moustache. “Mr. Vickers,” he says, “is there a problem?”
Vickers glances at Bec, then back at Brennan. “Nah.
We're cool.”
“All right, then.” Mr. Brennan turns back to us. “I suggest
you two go find your seats.”
“We will,” Bec says. Brennan shoots a warning look at
Vickers, and then starts back down the stairs.
A few rows up, a group of girls stands and starts
applauding. One of them calls down toward Vickers, “How
do you like that, douchebag?”
Sierra glares at me.
Bec takes my arm, pulling me away, and we move past
them, climbing until we reach the very top of the bleachers.
I sit, taking deep breaths, trying to abate the tingling that is
rapidly spreading out from my cheeks to the rest of my face.
Bec squeezes my hand.
“You're shaking,” she says. “Are you okay?”
“Yeah,” I reply.
A squeal of feedback issues from the speaker overhead,
and a voice begins introducing the players. The list is long
and mostly unfamiliar until the announcer says, “Jason
Solomona!” At first I don't react, but when Bec stands and
starts cheering, I join her. The announcer says something
else after his name, but it's a string of words and phrases so
foreign to me they might as well be in another language.
“What was all that about?” I ask.
“One of the defensive linemen was injured, so Solo's
filling in.”
I start to ask what the hell that means, but then the
announcer introduces the star quarterback, and the crowd
explodes to its feet. The noise is tremendous—and that's
when my vision starts to tunnel. I sit down quickly and draw
my thighs up to my chest. Bec reaches behind me and rubs
my back.
“I know it's loud,” she says, “but we're okay up here.”
I nod.
“And we can leave if it gets bad.”
I close my eyes and try to paint the whiteboard black. I
make it about three quarters of the way before the black
paint starts to drip away—but combined with Bec's touch,
it's enough to calm me. The numbness recedes, leaving only
that frenetic buzzing in the back of my head. I start to watch
the game.
To me, football is like a poorly organized war in which two
groups of guys face off at an arbitrarily drawn line. Someone
yells “hike,” and then they all try to kill one another while
four or five others chase a ball like cats after a laser pointer.
Solo isn't even one of the cats—he appears to spend
most of his time wrestling with the only guy on the other
team who comes close to matching his size. At halftime, the
scoreboard reads: LIONS: 0
VISITORS: 14
The other team is from Anaheim Lutheran, and I
understand enough about football to appreciate that today,
it's the Christians who are eating the Lions.
When the fourth quarter begins, the other team is
already in what Bec refers to as “the red zone.” They line up
only a few yards from the big Lions logo spray-painted in the
grass. The crowd is hushed, the mood tense. I'm watching
Solo. When the other team's quarterback yells “hike,” Solo
darts forward with unexpected speed, knocking his sumo
partner onto his back. Two other guys in white Lutherans
jerseys rush in to block him, but they're smaller, and he
shunts them aside like bowling pins. Now, the Lutherans'
quarterback—who, for some reason, is not throwing the ball
—starts to dodge around, trying to avoid Solo, but Solo
pursues him relentlessly. Finally, the guy turns and tries to
run up the field in the opposite direction, but it's too late.
Solo jumps on him, squashing him flat against a big number
thirty painted white on the grass.
And then, all the other players run up and pile on top of
them. Even the other Lutherans. It's as if Solo and the
opposing quarterback have committed some sort of crime,
and their punishment is being crushed to death.
All of a sudden, a guy in a green jersey emerges from the
tangle of legs and helmets; he's holding the ball. He looks
down at it in disbelief, and then starts to run.
Somebody in the crowd yells, “Fumble!” And then
everyone is on their feet, Bec included, yelling, “Go! Go!
Go!” Even I stand up and raise my fists.
That seems to turn the tide of the game, and when it's
over, the scoreboard reads: LIONS: 17
VISITORS: 14
Bec stands up, ready to leave, but I pull her back down
by the hem of her jacket.
“Let's wait until the crowd clears a little,” I say.
“Okay.”
“Besides, I need you to explain what happened so I can
compliment Solo without sounding like an idiot.”
Bec laughs. “What happened is that, the very first time
Solo ever played defense, he sacked the opposing
quarterback and caused a fumble that led to a momentumshifting
touchdown. Which is epic. They would have lost
without him.”
“Why do you know so much about football?”
She shrugs. “I am mysterious and unpredictable.”
We watch the bleachers clear out. When Vickers and his
gang are gone and the seats are mostly empty, Bec says,
“Good to go?”
I nod, and we stand and start down the stairs. The
buzzing is still there in the back of my head, as though the
anxiety is just taking a nap, and too much noise or
excitement will wake it up again. I take a few deep Doctor
Ann breaths. They help, but it doesn't quite go away.
It's getting dark when we finally exit the field. Parents are
pulling out of the lot in their SUVs, the opposing team's
players are filing onto their bus, and groups of students
stand around, discussing the game or deciding where to go
next. We're stepping off the curb and into the lot when I
spot Jim Vickers and his crew huddled next to an old green
pickup truck. It's the one Bec was leaning against before the
game. Vickers looks at me, glances at Bec, and says
something to his friends. They all look over at us. Instantly,
the buzzing in my head grows louder. I want to reach for
Bec's hand, but I'm frozen.
“Hey,” Vickers says, walking toward us. I want to walk
away—to run away—but Bec stands fast. Two of Vickers's
friends trail behind him. Sierra leans against the bed of the
truck, arms folded, watching with a smug look on her face.
The buzzing in my head spreads until my whole body is
thrumming.
Vickers stops maybe three feet away and points at Bec.
“If you were a dude, I would beat your ass.”
Bec cocks her head. “That's a bit sexist, don't you
think?”
Vickers shrugs. “I don't hit girls. Even titless wonders like
you.”
I feel my jaw tighten.
“But it's okay to comment on our bodies?” Bec says.
“I just call them like I see them,” Vickers says. Cole
laughs.
“Huh,” Bec says. “Let me give that a try.” She gestures at
the purple stain on his crotch. “Based on the lack of bulge,
even if we allow for shrinkage because of the cold, I'd say
you've got your own anatomical shortcoming.”
Vickers frowns.
“I mean you have a small dick,” Bec says.
Vickers's face darkens, and he clenches his good hand
into a fist. He steps forward and puts his face right in Bec's.
My chest is tight, my heart pounding. My head throbs
with adrenaline.
“You better walk away before I decide you are a dude.
Dyke.”
Bec's nostrils flare, but she says nothing, and she doesn't
move.
I'm surprised when I hear my own voice cut through the
silence. “Back off.”
Vickers glances at Bec, then back at me. “Fuck you,
queer. This is none—”
But I don't hear anything after the word “queer.” That
word isn't his to use.
I fly at him. My vision goes blurry. My head feels full of
burning cotton. Vickers tries to shove me, but I knock his
good arm aside and lunge forward. Instinctively, I grab his
cast in both hands and pull hard. Something pops. He grunts
in pain and staggers back—and then there are hands on me.
Bec's hands, pulling me away. Vickers drops to the ground,
clutching his arm and groaning. Sierra yells a curse and
rushes toward him.
I stand there, looking down at Vickers sprawled on the
asphalt, not quite believing what's happening.
His friends kneel to help him. One of them, the redhead,
looks up at Bec.
“You'd better get out of here,” he says.
She takes my arm, and we do.
CHAPTER 24
I'M STILL BREATHING HARD WHEN Bec guides me into
the passenger seat. She gets in on the driver's side, slams
the door, and starts the engine.
“You okay?” she asks.
My heart pounds—but in my chest, not in my throat. The
roar of the crowd still rings in my ears, and the glare of the
stadium lights is a hovering red blur when I close my eyes.
But this isn't anxiety; it's adrenaline.
“Yeah,” I say. “I think I am. I'm just really . . . amped.”
“Well, buckle your seat belt, Bruce Lee. Let's get the hell
out of here.”
A squeaky, slightly hysterical laugh escapes my throat as
she backs out of the parking space and heads for the exit.
“Wait,” I say. “Can you drive?”
“More or less,” Bec replies.
As we're pulling out of the lot, I shoot a glance back
toward the green pickup truck. Vickers is on his feet now.
Sierra tries to put an arm around him, but he pushes her
away. For an instant, I think I see Bec's brother, Erik,
standing by the truck's front bumper. And then we turn the
corner and pass out of sight.
“Did your brother come to the game tonight?” I ask.
Bec looks over at me. “I doubt it.”
“Is he still trying to get in good with the team?”
She shrugs. “Honestly I haven't been paying much
attention to him. There's been a lot of other stuff. . . .” Bec
pauses, shakes her head. “Anyway.”
“What other stuff?”
“A lot of family bullshit I don't really feel like going into,”
she snaps. I shrink back in my seat a little. Bec glances at
me. “I'm sorry. Let's change the subject.”
“Okay,” I say, still a little hurt.
“I'll start,” Bec says, affecting a cheery voice. “You want
to go to the movies with me?”
I smile. “Yes, I do.”
Bec drives like she's trying to outrun the cops: she zigs
and zags through traffic, exceeding the speed limit by at
least fifteen miles per hour. At first, I just grip the door
handle and stare—but then Bec rolls down the windows and
turns up the music, and something inside me seems to
break loose. She starts singing along to “Anesthesia,” and I
join in with my own atonal shouting.
We careen down East Imperial Highway and shoot right
past the Cineplex.
“Where are we going?” I yell over the music.
“You'll see.”
We turn south on Richfield Avenue and keep driving until
we cross the Park Hills border into Fullerton. Bec clicks off
the stereo and lets out a long, slow sigh.
“What's wrong?” I ask.
“I guess I'm still pretty shaky. I thought my heart was
going to beat right out of my chest back there.”
“Welcome to my world,” I say.
I turn and stare out the window. We pass a hardware
store my dad used to frequent and an old appliance
showroom with a banner that reads: EVERYTHING MUST GO!
On the plywood planks covering the broken windows,
someone has spray-painted EVERYTHING IS GONE.
“I'm sorry I freaked out back there,” I say, my face still
turned away from Bec. “I don't know what happened.”
“Hey,” she says, and I turn to look at her. “It's okay.
You're human. You have a breaking point. Vickers found it.”
I nod. “I think I might have rebroken his arm.”
Bec considers. “Well, he and his friends haven't exactly
made life easy for you. And tonight, he said some really
nasty shit. And then he got right up in my face.”
“Yeah,” I say.
“Yeah,” Bec repeats, with emphasis.
She turns left, pulls up to a 7-Eleven, and sets the
parking brake. “You stay in the car,” she says, then gets out,
leaving the keys in the ignition and the engine running. “I'll
get snacks.”
I watch her through the window as she browses the
snack aisle. She has this confidence in her walk—as though
nothing bad is ever going to happen—and I try to memorize
how she looks in the store, lit from above by the harsh
fluorescents and filtered through two layers of glass. I feel
something inside me twist and untwist, like a wet rag being
wrung out. It's a good feeling.
When she gets back in the car, she hands me a plastic
bag containing a Slim Jim, a bottle of grape soda, and a bag
of mini Oreos.
“They're accidentally vegan,” she says, and the pleasant
twisting sensation intensifies.
We head east for three more blocks and pull up behind a
crumbling, windowless three-story brick office building.
Despite the packed parking lot, there's not a soul in sight—
and, somewhere on the other side of the building, a strange
electric glow lights up the sky, growing and fading at
random, like the lightning from a miniature thunderstorm.
“This is it,” Bec says.
“This is what?” I ask.
Bec just smiles and gets out of the van. I follow as she
slaloms through the parked cars, working her way toward
the back of the building. She stops under an ancient, rusting
fire escape and looks up at it.
“You're not going up that thing,” I say.
“We both are,” she replies, her eyes locked on the
wrought-iron ladder protruding from the bottom of the fire
escape.
“That's crazy.”
Bec looks at me, and my stomach twists again. “So are
we,” she says, holding out the 7-Eleven bag. I take it.
And then, without warning, she bends her knees and
leaps into the air, grabbing onto the lowest rung. The catch
gives under her weight, and the ladder comes down with a
tremendous clang. Bec brushes flakes of rust off her hands
and gestures at the ladder, which now hangs a foot above
our heads.
“You first,” she says. I stare up at the ladder dubiously.
Bec takes a step back. “I'll give you a boost.”
I step forward, and Bec puts her hands on either side of
my waist. Even with layers of shirt and jacket between us,
my skin heats up where she touches me, and then it
spreads through my whole body. I'm grateful there's only
one flickering sodium lamp overhead—because I'm certain
I've just gone completely red. I jump and Bec lifts, and I
grab ahold of the ladder and start to climb.
By the time I make it to the top, I'm flushed and out of
breath, but the exertion seems to have expelled the last of
the buzzing from my head. With the 7-Eleven bag clenched
between her teeth, Bec ascends the ladder like a fireman,
vaults onto the roof, and motions me forward. “Come on.”
I follow her across the rooftop, careful not to trip on the
warped, peeling surface, which is littered with cigarette
butts, candy wrappers, and empty beer cans. When I catch
up to Bec, she's standing at the edge of the building,
looking down on the courtyard of an abandoned shopping
center. There are people down there—two dozen or more—
sitting on planters and blankets and lawn chairs. Someone
has rigged up a projector, and they're showing an old movie
on the side of the four-story building facing us.
“What is this?” I ask.
“Movie night,” she says. “One of the churches around
here organizes it, I think.” She gestures at the old adobestyle
bell tower on the other side of the courtyard. When
she speaks again, her voice is so quiet I have to move closer
to hear her. “I used to come here a lot, until the football
guys found it and ruined it. Probably Chewie's fault. But
since there was a game tonight, they're otherwise
occupied.”
And then she's silent for a long time—thinking, I guess,
or maybe remembering something. Either way, I don't want
to disturb the quiet, so I just watch her face, lit
intermittently by the flickering projection on the far wall.
Finally, she leads me to another part of the roof, where she
reaches behind an exposed ventilation duct and pulls out
two corroding lawn chairs. She sets them near the edge,
then gestures for us to sit. The old movie dialogue echoes
faintly off the bricks, blending in with the sound of crickets
and the distant whoosh of traffic on the freeway. For a
moment, it feels like we're alone in the world.
“I used to come here with my sister before she died,” Bec
says. Her voice is suddenly small, almost like a little kid's.
“Today would have been her fifteenth birthday.”
“Oh, God, Bec. I'm so sorry.”
Bec nods. “I thought I could handle coming back here, if
you came with me, but I . . .” She stops, swallows, and then
starts to speak again. “She was transgender, Riley. That's
how I knew about the Q. How I know Mike/Michelle and
everybody. Because of my sister.”
I stare at Bec for a second, then nod absently and look
away. If I'm really honest with myself, I'm not surprised.
How else could Bec be so attuned to what I'm going
through? I feel a deep swell of sorrow for her, and for her
sister.
And then the sorrow is overpowered by a pang of
something else, a knot of doubt that leaves a bitter taste in
the back of my throat: What if Bec was never attracted to
me in the first place? What if she only followed me to the
ramp that day because I reminded her of her dead sister? It
would make sense; I mean, we spent what I thought was our
first date in the bedroom they shared. And then she took me
to the Q, a place they went together. And now, we're at
another one of their spots. On her dead sister's birthday.
I turn and look at Bec, worried that she's somehow been
reading my thoughts—but the distance in her eyes tells me
she's a million miles away, remembering something
impossibly painful. I'm surprised when she speaks up again.
“I guess I knew from the time she was about six. We were
coloring, and she traded me dinosaurs for princesses. She
always wanted the princesses. We used to play dress-up,
and she would beg to wear my patent leather Mary Janes,
even though they were too big for her.” She laughs, but it
fades quickly. She picks at a flake of oxidizing metal. “When
she finally told me how she felt, I tried to help. I researched
on the internet with her. We found the Q. But after she came
out to the family . . . things got worse. My parents started
fighting. Erik withdrew. When she died . . .” Bec looks away.
“It wasn't an accident.” She falls silent.
“What happened?”
“Mom and Dad were asleep. I was still awake, reading,
and I heard her get up, go to the bathroom, flush the toilet,
and go back to bed. I've replayed those sounds a thousand
times, and I . . .” She shakes her head defensively, as if
some unheard voice is cross-examining her. When she
speaks again, the words come out tight and flat. “It was my
fault. I was the one who encouraged her to come out. But
the way the family reacted . . . She thought we would be
better off without her. She even wrote it in her note.” Bec
looks up at me. “She didn't wake up. I found four empty pill
bottles, all tightly closed and neatly replaced in the
medicine cabinet. She was thirteen.”
Bec turns her unfocused eyes back to the movie. I reach
out and take her hand. It's freezing. I want to say
something, to say I'm sorry, to say it's horrible, but the
words seem stupid and empty. So I just hold her hand until
she's ready to talk again.
“It broke my mom. She just fucking gave up. And then
Dad left. I don't blame him, I'd have left too, if I could've.
The rest of us were hurting, too, you know? What right did
she have to just stop?” She draws in a deep breath.
“Anyway. That's where I am when I'm not at school. At
home, taking care of my”—she seems to swallow an unkind
word—“mom. She can't hold down a job. Dad sends money,
but I basically have to be a parent from the time I get home
from school to the time I leave the next day. And on tough
days, I have to . . .” Bec trails off. “And, since this is Gabi's
birthday month, they're pretty much all tough days. So.”
Bec looks at me uncertainly.
“Gabi,” I say. “That was her name?”
Bec nods.
“It's beautiful. Named after the angel, right?”
She nods. “My mom's choice. They named her Gabriel,
and she shortened it to Gabi.” Bec withdraws her hand from
mine and crosses her arms. She glances at the movie
projected on the bricks, then turns back to me. “You must
hate me.”
“Hate you? For what?”
“For using you. For treating you like some kind of
emotional crutch instead of just being there for you.”
I shake my head. “No.”
Bec sniffs once, wipes her eyes on her jacket, and looks
me in the eye. “Be straight with me.”
I pick at a thread on the knee of my jeans. “Okay,” I say.
“I did hate you, a little, but only for, like, a second.”
“That's fair.”
And we just sit there for a minute, not talking, but not
really watching the movie, either. For the first time, I notice
it's in black-and-white.
“What movie is this?” I ask.
“Casablanca, I think,” Bec replies.
We're quiet for another few moments, and then I ask,
“Do you want to go home?”
Bec shakes her head. “No. Let's just . . . let's just watch
the movie. Okay?”
I nod.
“I'm sorry,” she says.
“For what?”
She takes my hand. “For ruining our date.”
CHAPTER 25
I DON'T EVEN TRY to sleep.
The last five hours feel longer than the whole last year of
my life. The images and sensations—good and bad—flash
through my head like a slide show: Sierra Wells's face, red
with rage. The pop of Vickers's arm as I pulled it, and the
thump of blood rushing past my ears. Bec's crooked smile.
The feel of her fingers between mine.
And all at once the buzz is back in my chest; I wish my
dad wasn't guarding my meds. I haven't felt the need to
sneak an extra one since my little freak-out, but I could use
one now. But if I can't have my pills, I need distraction. I pull
my laptop toward me and turn it on.
I've only posted once since Andie Gingham's story went
public, and I still haven't gone through the hundreds of
messages clogging my inbox. If this is my new cause—
helping other people deal with their gender identity issues—
then I'm doing a horrible job of it. I feel guilty for neglecting
my blog, for not writing back to my followers—but it took
me a week to get over one anonymous hate message, and
I've been too afraid that if I log in, I'll only find more abuse.
But now, alone in my bedroom, my need for distraction
outweighs my fear. No, not distraction—connection. I need
someone—someone anonymous. Someone who can't judge
me. Or see me.
Or know me.
My follower count has risen to just over forty-eight
thousand, but my messages have maxed out at five
hundred. I take a deep breath, then scan through a few of
them. There are some random compliments, and
considerably more criticisms, but most of the messages are
requests for advice. At the moment, I don't feel qualified to
help anyone. So I start clicking Delete.
The first few times, I see the message counter on my
dash going down: 499, 498, 497, and so on. But after I've
deleted maybe a dozen messages, the number starts
creeping back up. Could new messages really be coming in
that fast?
I scroll down to the very bottom of my inbox and see six
—no, seven new messages all time-stamped within the last
minute. I click on the first one.
Anonymous: i guess 50,000 fans can't be wrong
I sit back against my headboard and stare at the screen.
What does that mean? A vague sense of dread settles in,
tightening my chest. I open the next: Anonymous: but i
think u just want attention My nose begins to tingle, then
my cheeks. I should just log out, but something about this
message compels me to read the next.
Anonymous: get it while u can. cuz no one is going
to love u once they find out Anonymous: u. r. a. freak.
I want to be angry. I want to be furious, but instead, heat
builds up behind my eyes, and I feel tears coming.
Unable to stop myself, I click the next message. And the
next.
Anonymous: who wants to love a dickless sewn up
faggot dyke tranny Anonymous: why dont u just go to
the bathroom right now Anonymous: and take all ur
pills and kill urself I think of Gabi's bottles lined up
neatly in the medicine cabinet. The first tears stream
down my face.
Anonymous: u know u want to
Anonymous: so easy. easier than facing what u r
My chest heaves in a sob.
Enough. I click Delete. I erase the hateful messages one
by one, as quickly as I can. But new ones pop up, one after
the other, piling up faster than I can click.
Anonymous: ur school will be happy
Anonymous: ur fake friends will be happy
Anonymous: ur dad will be happy
Sobs shake my body. I pound at the keyboard, trying to
stop the cascade of opening messages, but they just keep
coming.
Anonymous: no one will cry for
Anonymous: poor.
Anonymous: little.
Anonymous: RILEY
The messages stop. I stare at the screen. At my name
spelled out in all-capital letters.
My real name.
RILEY.
Unaware of what I'm doing, my whole face thrumming,
tingling, numb, I dash to the bathroom. Hot bile rises in my
throat. I open the tap, lean over the counter, and dry-heave
into the basin as cold water runs down the back of my neck.
All at once, the tingling in my face spreads like wildfire in a
hot wind, head to chest to arms to toes. I try to take a deep
breath, but my chest is too tight. My lungs won't expand. I
can't breathe.
My heart pounds in my chest, stutters, pounds again. My
vision goes dark at the corners.
poor.
little.
RILEY
A low moan rumbles up from inside me, and when it gets
to my throat, it becomes a scream. Time and vision seem to
fade and I feel myself thrashing, flailing, screaming in a
void.
There's a distant crash, like a window breaking. A jolt of
pain shoots through my hand and up my arm, and I hear my
father's voice from the doorway.
“Riley, what's going on?”
I flinch back into reality as Dad crosses to the sink and
grabs my arm. Without knowing it, I've put my fist through
the bathroom mirror.
Red droplets fall from my knuckles to spatter the white
marble basin and swirl pink down the drain. I look up at the
mirror. From the place I struck it, a spider web of cracks
spreads out like ripples on a frozen lake. A dozen dark
reflections stare back at me.
And then my mother is in the room, enfolding me in her
arms.
“What's the matter, Riley? What's wrong?”
I try to answer her, but I can't get the words out through
my heaving, irregular breath.
Someone knows who I am.
CHAPTER 26
WHEN WE PULL UP AT Doctor Ann's office, I start to get
out of the car, but Mom lays a hand on my arm. “Wait,” she
says. I glance back at her, and she looks . . . old. The lines
around her eyes seemed to have deepened, and I spot a few
gray hairs among the auburn ones. I wonder if it's stress
from the election that's causing it, or if it's me. I close the
door and settle back into my seat.
“Riley, I'm . . .” She pauses, reaching up as if she's about
to chew on her cuticle—then realizes what she's doing and
lets her hand drop into her lap. “Your father and I discussed
it. You don't have to go to the fund-raiser Tuesday if you
don't want to.”
I whirl on her. “You think I punched a mirror to get out of
going to the fund-raiser?”
“I don't know,” she says. But she doesn't sound angry;
she sounds worried. I start to reply, but I can't think of what
to say. Mom stares out the windshield. “When I married your
father, I knew what I was getting into. The crazy schedule,
the media.” She lets out an ironic laugh. “I thought it would
be romantic. It hasn't been all roses and bunny rabbits, but I
love him. So I get through it.” She glances at me, smiles
sadly. “But you can't stand it, can you? All the events, and
the attention, and the dressing up. You hate it.”
I consider for a moment before replying. “I hate feeling
like a liability.”
My mother shakes her head. “That's . . .” She stops and
folds her hands in her lap again. “You've never been a
liability. You're more important to us than this election. Than
anything.”
I turn my head to glance out the window, and then she
makes a weird sound—somewhere between a laugh and a
sob—and I look back at her.
“Your father is better at this sort of thing,” she says.
“He's the one who has the way with words. I never know
what to say to people. To you.” She tucks her hair behind
one ear. “I just feel everything, and then try to hold it in.
Good manners, but not much courage.” She looks at me. “I
guess you're somewhere in the no-man's-land between.”
My heart contracts as though it's being squeezed. I've
always thought my mom was clueless about me—but what
she just said is so . . . true. I wonder if she knows more than
I think she does. Before I can say anything, she goes on.
“Riley, this . . . thing that you're going through. You can
tell me about it. All right? You can just tell me. Sometime.”
She looks at me. Her mouth is a thin line. Her eyes are
moist. She's never been this open with me—it's moving, and
a little frightening, too.
“I will,” I say. “I will when I know what to say.”
When Doctor Ann finally calls me into her office, she's
seated in her usual chair, her legs crossed at the knee. I flop
into one of the cow chairs.
“Sorry for making you work on a Sunday,” I say.
“No one is making me work, Riley.”
“Yeah, but when a congressman calls, you sort of have to
come. Right?”
Doctor Ann's smile fades slightly. “Is this a test?”
“What do you mean?”
“Well,” Doctor Ann says, dislodging a stray hair caught in
her lipstick, “sometimes we test people. We want to make
sure they care, and that we're safe with them. We want to
find out what their motivations are so we can predict their
behavior.”
“So you think I don't trust you because you came in on a
Sunday?”
“I think you want me to say I'm here for some other
reason than it's my job.”
I stare at her. “Are you this honest with your other
patients?”
She blinks. “I'm this honest before my second cup of
coffee.” I let out a small laugh. She says, “You want to tell
me what happened last night?”
I shift in my seat, and then suddenly the words just sort
of blurt themselves out. “I got in a fight at the football game
and then I went on a date with a girl.”
Doctor Ann raises her eyebrows. “You went to a football
game?”
I manage to smile—and then I tell her about last night. I
start with Bec holding my hand as we walked into the
stadium. I recount the fight with Vickers. I even talk about
Bec's sister committing suicide—but I end the story there.
When I'm finished, Doctor Ann remains quiet for a long time,
just looking at me. I catch myself picking at the bandage on
my hand, and I fold my arms.
Finally, she says, “Are you going to tell me the rest?”
“That wasn't enough?”
Doctor Ann takes off her glasses and begins cleaning
them. “For some people, there's a delay between
experiencing a stress trigger and having an anxiety
reaction. They get in a car accident, and they're fine
afterward. But then, three days later, safe and secure in
their cubicle at work, they have a massive panic attack.”
She puts her glasses back on and regards me. “That's not
you. Your episodes usually have an immediate trigger.”
I take a long breath and let it out through my nose.
Where do I even start?
“Did you hear about the trans girl in Oklahoma?” I ask.
“The one whose father beat her up when she came out?”
Doctor Ann nods. “Andie Gingham.”
“Yeah. Well, I'm . . .” I wrap my uninjured hand into a
tight fist, willing the fingers not to go numb. “I'm Alix.”
She frowns. “I'm sorry?”
“The journal blog you had me start? I go by Alix. I'm the
one Andie reached out to online. The one who told her to
have empathy for her abusive parents. The one she thanked
in all those interviews.”
Realization dawns slowly on Doctor Ann's face: first
confusion, then understanding, and then I think I catch a
hint of fear before she puts on her clinical face again. “I
see.”
And then I tell her everything.
I start with my first post and the overwhelming response
it received, about Mike/Michelle featuring my blog on
QueerAlliance.org. I describe that first hate-mail message
—“your a fag”—and my seething reply. My advice to Andie,
the subsequent news coverage, and the explosion of
followers that resulted. In as much detail as I can
remember, I tell her about the anonymous threats—and
finally, about the stalker who identified me by name.
When I'm done, Doctor Ann walks over to her
coffeemaker, pours herself a second cup, and then leans
against the edge of her desk. “So. What are you thinking of
doing?”
I blink. “What?”
“What are you thinking of doing?”
“About what?”
“About all of it.”
I cock my head in disbelief. “That's what you're asking
me? I tell you that someone knows all my secrets—that I
have a real-life stalker—and you ask me in that casual
fucking tone, ‘What are you thinking of doing?'”
Doctor Ann's face remains impassive. She sips at her
coffee. I want to yell at her. Slap her coffee cup out of her
hand. Anything to get a reaction. But she just sits there,
waiting me out. When the silence grows too uncomfortable,
I clear my throat and speak.
“I don't know,” I say. My voice cracks. “What do you think
I should do?”
Doctor Ann looks down at her feet—something I've never
seen her do before. I think she'll look up after a few
seconds, but she doesn't. She just stares at her tan flats,
gripping her coffee cup in one white-knuckled fist. After an
uncomfortably long interval, just when I'm convinced she's
going to stand up and dismiss me as a patient, she says
quietly, “Have you ever shaken up a two-liter soda bottle?”
I open my mouth, close it again, then reply, “Yeah.”
She looks up at me. “That's you. Right now. You're the
bottle. And the world just keeps shaking you up. Move to a
new school: shake, shake, shake. Kids harass you at lunch:
shake, shake, shake. Get a threatening email: shake, shake,
shake. All that pressure building up. You feel like you've got
to let some of it out, or you'll explode. So, every now and
then, you unscrew the cap, just a little. Just enough to let
out some of that pressure. You ditch school. You yell at your
parents. You punch a mirror.” She shrugs. “But no matter
how many times you vent, life keeps shaking you up. And
eventually, if you don't take the cap all the way off and deal
with the mess, that bottle is going to explode.”
“What does that mean?” I ask.
“What do you think it means?”
“I hate it when you do this,” I say, standing to pace
behind my chair. “I mean, what are we even talking about?
Are we talking about coming out?”
“You tell me.”
A spike of fear drives its way into my chest, and I shake
my head. “I'm not ready.”
Doctor Ann considers me over the rims of her glasses.
“You know how you're always telling me to stop asking you
‘therapist questions' and give you actual advice?”
I stop pacing and grip the back of the chair. “Yeah.”
“Talk to your parents about what you're going through.”
“You mean come out to them?”
“I mean talk to them about what you're going through.
Tell them how it is at school. What it's like for you to get
dressed in the morning.”
I shake my head. “No way. Not two weeks before the
election. He'd have a stroke.”
“You don't know that's true.”
“Trust me.”
“Okay. But what if this anonymous person outs you
before you have the chance? Wouldn't that be worse?”
“I'll delete my blog. I'll just shut it down.”
“You could,” she says. “But after all that publicity from
the Andie Gingham article, I don't know if that will make a
difference. Besides,” she says, uncrossing her legs and
leaning toward me. “I don't think you want to delete your
blog. I think you're proud of it. Proud of yourself for writing
it.” I blush furiously. Is she mocking me? But then Doctor
Ann leans back in her chair and says, “I know I'm proud of
you.”
I turn even more red—but this time, it's from
embarrassment instead of anger.
I swallow, then drop back into the chair. “So. What do I
do?”
Doctor Ann lets out another sigh. “Every therapist dreads
this question.”
“What? Why?”
“Because if it goes horribly wrong, we feel responsible.”
“You're not making me feel better right now.”
“Okay, okay. Three things,” she says, ticking them off on
her fingers. “One. You prepare what you want to say. Write it
down, get it clear. That part should be easy for you.” I smile.
“Two. Find the right time—not just before some big event,
and not right after an argument. Pick a calm moment.
Three, do it on neutral ground.”
“What's neutral ground?”
“Not in public. Someplace you feel safe. We could even
do it here, if you want.”
I nod, then let out a long exhale. The feeling starts to
come back to my fingers. “How will I know when I'm ready?”
Doctor Ann folds her hands, smiles. “You'll know.”
CHAPTER 27
TUESDAY ARRIVES WITH THE KIND of merciless velocity
usually reserved for the last week of summer. The election is
only two weeks away, and tonight's dinner event is the most
important of my dad's campaign, if not his career. All day
long, there's a faint buzz of anxiety in the back of my head,
but thanks to a slight alteration in my meds—not to mention
the support of Solo and Bec, who stay in touch with me
throughout the day by text—I'm holding it together. I even
manage to pay attention in Precalc.
It helps that I haven't heard anything more from my
anonymous stalker. Whoever it is, they're probably just
trying to scare me. Maybe they hacked my account and
discovered my real name—but that doesn't mean they know
who I am. I did a little Googling and found literally dozens of
Riley Cavanaughs in the US and Canada; the knowledge
helps to calm my nerves.
Still, I'm not eager for more drama—so I avoid the
cafeteria, taking refuge in Miss Crane's room instead. Solo
and Bec join me, and the three of us chat with Miss Crane
about books and anime while we eat.
On the way back to class, I'm walking past my locker
when a glint of something silver on the door catches my
eye. I stop to look, and a cold knot forms in my chest:
someone has covered the lock with duct tape. I take a step
closer. The combination dial has been removed entirely.
Someone broke into my locker.
I look around, suddenly convinced that I'm being
watched—but the hall is empty. Everyone is still at lunch or
in class. I turn back to my locker, peel off the tape, and open
it.
A tangy, pungent odor wafts out as the door swings back
on its hinges. Vinegar? I wonder if the kid with the locker
next to mine has left his lunch bag in there too long. At first,
nothing appears to be missing. I can see my textbooks in
their usual haphazard pile. I reach in to grab my copy of The
Crucible off the top, but withdraw my hand immediately
when it touches something sticky. I wipe my hand on my
hoodie, pull out my phone, and use it to illuminate the
inside of the locker.
My books—all of them—are spattered with coagulated
blood. I stagger back and cover my mouth with my hand—
but when I look closer, the vinegar smell hits me again, and
I realize it's not blood, but ketchup. There's a drizzle of
something faintly golden, too—it looks like honey. The sides
of my locker are dripping with it. I reach in and gingerly lift
the cover of my French textbook: the pages are soaked,
sticking together in clumps.
I stare at the stack of ruined books for a long moment,
feeling my heart creep up into my throat, and the heat and
pressure build behind my eyes. I won't let tears come. I
won't. I start to close my locker, but stop when I notice that
something is pasted on the inside of the door.
It's a sequence of cutout magazine letters spelling the
words
POOR LITTLE RILEY
My pulse pounds in my throat. I want to throw up. I want
to scream, but nothing comes out. I look around to see if
anyone is watching, and then—I'm not sure why I do it—I
cross the hall and drag a trash can toward my locker. Pulling
down the sleeve of my hoodie to cover my hand like a
mitten, I reach in and slide the stack of books into the trash
can. They hit the bottom with a thump, stirring up a cloud of
tiny insects. Then I turn to the inside of the locker door and
scratch at the edges of the pasted-on letters until they peel
away. I drop the shreds of paper into the trash, then pull off
my hoodie and drop it on top, concealing everything.
I stare blankly into the trash can as the buzzing in my
head swells, drowning out all other sounds. I had thought—
no, hoped—that my stalker might just be some random
stranger on the internet, trying to scare me. But this proves
that's not true. The stalker is here, at my school. And they
know exactly who I am.
The bell rings, and I flinch so hard that I let out a grunt of
surprise. Students start to flood the hallway. Hastily, I slam
my locker shut and drag the trash can back into place,
leaving it next to the restroom door.
Then I go inside, lock myself in a stall, and vomit.
It's an hour before we're supposed to leave for the fundraiser.
I'm standing in front of my closet, fighting the
heaviest bout of dysphoria I've ever experienced. My whole
body feels fake. My stomach roils with nausea. My palms
sweat.
I can still smell the tang of vinegar, still see the cut-out
letters. I shake my head hard, but it has no effect. I slap my
face, like you do when you're falling asleep behind the
wheel. It hurts, but it helps.
I stare at the outfit my mother chose as it hangs there in
the closet. Finally, I work up the courage to put it on. I do it
as quickly as I can, just trying to get it over with. Once I'm
dressed, I stand in front of the brand-new bathroom mirror
and force myself to look into it. I open the mirrored medicine
cabinet just so, spilling an infinite trail of my own reflections
deep into the glass. I stare at them, hoping that, like a word
repeated over and over, my image will lose its meaning if I
look long enough.
“Riley?”
I flinch and turn. It's my father.
“Sorry,” he says, laughing a little. “I didn't mean to
startle you.” He holds out his hand: he's got three oblong
tablets cupped in his palm. “Doctor Ann said you could have
three tonight. If you want them.” He bounces the pills in his
hand like they're peanuts and we're at a ball game. I look at
his face, and I see genuine discomfort in his eyes. “Listen,”
he says, looking away, “Mom told me what you said, and I . .
. well, I wanted to thank you.”
I cock my head. “Thank me for what?”
“I know that you . . . dislike these events. I know they're
hard for you, with the anxiety, and . . . everything.” He
clears his throat. “And I appreciate you going. Not just for
appearances, you know, but because it's nice to have you
there. Supporting your dad.” He shrugs. “That's all.”
His lip trembles slightly. I've never heard him fumble for
words like this—and for the first time, I'm ready to tell him.
Right now. Ready to tell him how I feel in these clothes. How
I long to be “one of the guys” with Solo, and how I want Bec
to want me. I'm ready to tell him about Sierra calling me
“it,” and Vickers asking, “Is that the new tranny?” About the
blood—no, it was ketchup—all over my books. The message
in my locker. The stalker who knows my name.
I've been carrying around this pressure inside me for so
long—not just since I started at Park Hills, or even since I got
out of Pineview—but maybe since I was six years old. And
after everything that's happened in the past few weeks, it's
become too much. I want to let it go. I need to let it go. I
need my parents to know who I am.
I'm ready to come out.
But then I look at my dad, and I see how the lines on his
forehead have deepened, and the gray in his hair is no
longer confined to his temples. Under his eyes, I see the
dark semicircles he tries so hard to hide from the cameras.
In an hour, he'll be walking into a ballroom full of those
cameras, and I'll be right behind him. So no, maybe now
isn't the time. I'll tell him after the event. Tonight, when we
get home.
I'll tell them both.
I hold out my hand. He tips the tablets into my palm, and
I swallow them.
I'm silent in the limousine, just staring out the window and
taking deep Doctor Ann breaths. My dad keeps shooting me
worried looks. He thinks I don't notice, but I do. My mother,
on the other hand, makes no attempt to hide her concern.
Every few minutes, she glances over her shoulder to check
on me. At one point, she says, “How are you feeling,
honey?”
I force a brief smile. “I'll be fine once we're seated.”
The Grand Entrance is always the worst for me. These
fund-raisers are basically extravagant dinner parties that
the candidate throws for himself, pretending the whole time
that it was his supporters' idea, as though he and his staff
haven't spent the last month deciding on the menu and
tweaking the seating arrangements. For the sake of
theatrical tension, the candidate and his family have to
arrive fashionably late—which means we're always paraded
through a crowded hotel ballroom amid camera flashes and
deafening applause. In short, even without the dysphoria, it
is a perfect storm of anxiety triggers. Which is why Doctor
Ann upped my dosage for the evening. Xanax doesn't really
make me feel less anxious, per se. It just makes me care
less about feeling anxious. Like I'm distant from it. Like I'm
watching some other Riley down there fend off an
impending attack.
The limo pulls up in back of the hotel and a valet opens
the door for me. I step out and follow my parents up a short
flight of steps, through a steel door, and into a service
corridor. Dad's staff surrounds us now, Shelly's heels
clicking on the white tile, Elias reaching up to adjust the
radio mic clipped to his lapel. He flashes a big smile and
says something to me, but I don't hear. I just nod.
They lead us through the kitchen, weaving among rows
of tall stainless steel shelves and huge gas stovetops.
Vaguely, I think how this is the part of politics they
glamorize on TV. In real life, it just smells like frying grease
and restaurant trash.
We're at the ballroom door, and Mom turns to face me for
what she calls “last looks.” She fixes an errant strand of my
hair, then tries in vain to smooth a wrinkle in my clothes.
“Are you ready?” she says.
I look at her. Somewhere in the distance, I can feel my
heart beating against my breastbone. With a stifled laugh, I
imagine it shattering my sternum and skittering across the
rubber kitchen mat to freedom. I say a silent thank-you to
the one and a half milligrams of Xanax roaring through my
bloodstream.
“I'm ready,” I say.
The PA system in the ballroom squeals to life and a
muffled voice announces us. Then the doors open, and I'm
ushered into the chaos of flashing lights and loud cheers.
Elias is behind me, making sure I won't fall as we mount the
steps to the stage so Dad can introduce his family and say a
few words before dinner is served.
As I cross the stage behind my father, I feel 350 heads
turn in our direction, and I'm suddenly aware that I don't
know how to walk. My legs wobble, my knees twinge. I look
down at my feet, stumble, and fall forward.
Elias catches me, but not before an audible gasp rises
from the crowd. My father turns to look, his face a mixture
of concern and embarrassment, as Elias pulls me to my feet.
My mother takes a step toward me. I raise my hands to
show I'm fine.
I turn to the audience and murmur, “So much for that
gymnastics scholarship.” One of the microphones on the
podium picks up my voice, amplifying it, bouncing it off the
silk-papered walls and into the ears of the constituents
packed into the room. At first, there's a lull, and then an old
woman in the back lets out a high-pitched cackle. A moment
later, the room erupts in laughter and applause, and I take
an ironic bow.
By dessert, the Xanax is staring to wear off, but it's okay.
The hard part is over, and now all I have to do is nod and
smile and pretend to eat the brick-sized wedge of gelatinous
dairy products they've placed before me. My mom sees me
pushing the cheesecake around with my fork and produces
a square of dark chocolate from her purse. I take it
gratefully, and she smiles.
After a while, someone announces my father, and he
excuses himself to go up to the podium for his speech. I
hear myself wish him good luck.
When he's finished, the audience bursts into applause
and cheers. The noise is pretty bad, and I wish I could cover
my ears, but I know if I just smile and clap along I'll be safe
in the car in a few minutes.
My mom mouths, “Are you okay?”
I nod and smile.
And then it's over, and Elias and Shelly are leading us out
the way we came in, through the ballroom and into the
kitchen. It's less crowded here; my heartbeat slows. We
weave through the stainless steel maze and into the service
corridor. Just a few more steps, and we'll be at the car. My
breathing becomes steadier, and I let out a relieved laugh;
I'm going to make it. The hard part is over. We turn right
down the hall, and then we're at the exit. Elias reaches for
the door.
It opens to a burst of light as bright as a nuclear
explosion. I throw up my hands to shield my face. The snap
of camera shutters and the click of shoes on concrete
crescendos into a wall of sound, mixing with the shouting
voices of the crowd of reporters before us, making their
words indistinguishable.
I'm used to being intercepted by media after an event,
but the energy here is too frenetic, too high-pitched, like a
pack of coyotes descending on their prey.
Something is wrong.
Elias steps in front of me, spreading his arms like a fence.
My father raises his hands. “Okay, everybody, please
step back and give my family some room.”
A tall blond woman elbows her way to the front and
thrusts a microphone in my father's face.
“Congressman Cavanaugh! How will this revelation affect
your campaign for reelection?”
But before my father can answer, a man in a gray suit
calls out, “How will your conservative constituents
respond?”
And then they're all pushing forward, calling our names
and shouting questions, an undulating swarm of faces and
microphones.
“Congressman Cavanaugh!”
“How long have you known about Riley?”
“Do you support your child's lifestyle choices?”
I glance at my father. His mouth hangs open slightly, his
face a mask of confusion. Elias grabs me and shoves me
between my parents, then moves in front to clear a path
toward the car. We take a few steps, but the crowd of
reporters only presses in closer.
And then a small woman in a pink suit breaks through
the line and points her microphone at me.
“Riley,” she says, “how did your parents react when you
told them about your gender identity?”
CHAPTER 28
ONCE WE'RE OUT of the hotel parking lot, I expect my
father to begin the interrogation; but he just looks at me
and says, “We'll talk about this when we get home.”
By the time we turn onto our street, it's clogged with
reporters and news vans. Elias clears a path through,
inching along in his SUV, and we follow behind in the
limousine until we reach our driveway. And then we're out of
the car and fighting through another mob of media people.
Finally, Elias shoves us through the front door and slams it
behind us. The doorbell rings twice, and someone pounds on
the door—and then I hear Elias's raised voice, and the
pounding stops.
We stand in the dark foyer, frozen, waiting for the tumult
outside to subside. I stare at the floor, avoiding eye contact
with my parents as Elias clears the media people off the
front steps and urges them to leave the property. We listen
as the voices recede. Two news vans start up and drive
away.
Finally, Elias pokes his head through the door. “They're
clearing out.”
“Thank you, Elias,” my father says.
“You should probably stay inside tonight. Call if you need
anything.”
My father nods, and Elias closes the door.
And then it's just the three of us, standing in the unlit
house. I still can't bring myself to look at either of my
parents, so I just stare at the tile and try to breathe. I'm
grateful when my mother puts a hand on my shoulder and
then turns on the hallway light.
“Let's sit down,” she says. She turns and moves back
toward the family room, and we follow.
I sit down on the long, brown couch. My mom sits next to
me, leaving a small but noticeable gap between us. My
father drops into the big chair opposite.
Dad exhales, loosens his tie, and yanks it off. “Riley,” he
says, “what were they talking about out there?”
I don't reply.
He folds his tie in half, then in quarters. “You've got to
talk to us.”
This is not how the conversation is supposed to go. This
is not happening on neutral ground, I do not feel safe or
calm, and this is not the plan I made with Doctor Ann. It's
not fair. I feel tears welling up, but I force them back. I want
another Xanax. I want this to be over. I wish I could just
push the forward button and skip past this part like a bad
commercial.
But I can't. It has to be now.
My mouth is dry, and when I speak, my voice sounds like
someone else's. “I'm . . .” The words feel foreign and
unwieldy. I force them out anyway. “I'm gender fluid.”
There is no response. Not a gasp or a clearing of the
throat. Only silence.
Not knowing what else to do, I say it again. “I'm gender
fluid.”
My mother shifts in her seat. “Does that mean . . .” Her
voice breaks, and when she speaks again, her voice is
gentler. “You're gay?”
I shake my head, searching for a better way to tell her.
“No. It means that I . . . It's like—most people wake up, and
they know who they are. Like you know you're a woman.
You feel that way, you feel like one. It makes sense to you.”
She blinks at me as though I'm speaking a foreign
language.
“I'm sorry,” I say. Tears of frustration blur my vision, and I
wipe them away. “I had this all worked out, how to say this,
but it just sort of . . .” I open my hands. They're on fire with
pins and needles. I suck in a breath. “Gender fluid means
that sometimes I feel like I'm a girl. And sometimes I feel
like I'm a boy. So the . . .” I trail off.
It's quiet for a long time. Finally, I glance up at my mom.
She's looking past me at some unseen spot on the wall.
“Oh,” she says. Her tone is polite, distant. “So it's . . . you're
transsexual.”
I hear a thin vein of contempt in that last word, and it
sends a jolt through my heart. Mom reads my reaction and
shakes her head. She opens her mouth to say something,
but nothing comes out.
“No,” I say. “It's like that, but it's more complicated.”
Slowly, terrified of what I might see on his face, but
knowing I have to look, I turn to my father.
His jaw is set, his cheeks white. “How long have you
known?”
“I figured it out last year,” I say, the words flowing more
easily now. As though they need to come out. “Right before
that big dinner, do you remember? I locked myself in my
room?”
Recognition dawns on his face. My heart leaps; he
understands.
“But I guess I always knew something was different. I just
didn't have a word for it.”
Dad nods.
“But I don't understand,” my mother says, glancing at
my father and turning back to me. “How did the media find
out before we did?”
I try to swallow, but my throat is too tight. I glance back
at my father, hoping he'll intervene on my behalf, but he
only looks at me expectantly. I moisten my lips.
“I started a—a blog. It was anonymous, and then . . .”
I fall silent as my father stands abruptly. His face is
crimson, the vein in his temple pulsing. He opens and closes
his mouth like a fish out of water, but he can't seem to
speak.
My mother cuts in, her voice shaking. “You put this on
the internet?”
“I didn't—I used a fake name, but somebody figured out
—”
“Well of course they figured it out!” My dad's voice,
almost a bellow. “I'm a United States congressman running
for reelection, Riley. For Christ's sake, you don't think there
are people trying to dig up dirt on my family?” His eyes are
wild, the cords in his neck tight with anger.
Trying to dig up dirt?
I swallow. “Dad, I'm so sorry. I never meant for this to—”
“One month out of Pineview, Riley. We're not even
through dealing with that mess, now you want to broadcast
your bisexual phase on the goddamn internet?”
The moment the words are out, his face goes pale. He
looks at Mom, then back at me. He swallows. When he
speaks again, his voice is low and tremulous. “Riley,” he
says. “I didn't mean—”
But I don't care. I stand up, shaking with rage. “You think
I don't feel the pressure of your campaign every minute of
every day? You think I don't know I'm just a PR problem to
you? I changed schools for you. I wear this for you. I hide
who I am for you. I go to the doctor and take the right pills
and I did not broadcast this! I shared myself anonymously,
and somebody fucking outed me!”
I stand there, trembling, out of my body. My heart is in
my throat. It's going to explode. My father glares at me, his
mouth tight, his eyes wide and red. I turn my glare on my
mother so suddenly that she flinches.
I drag my arm across my eyes, sniff, and turn back to my
father. “And this is not a phase, Congressman. This is who I
am.”
I turn and run for the front door, grabbing Mom's keys
from the bowl on the hall table as I pass. I hear voices
behind me, calling me back, commanding me not to leave
the house, but I don't care. I tear open the front door, climb
into the minivan, and peel out into the darkness.
CHAPTER 29
I JUST DRIVE.
My body is on fire with tingling. My chest is tight, my
vision so severely tunneled it's like looking through the
wrong end of a telescope. I can't tell if I'm going five miles
per hour or fifty.
They know. Everyone knows. My father . . . I still hear the
rage in his voice; I feel it in my body like a physical blow. A
punch to the gut, knocking the wind out of me.
So I just drive.
I drive without thinking, tearing west down Imperial
Highway. Over the train tracks. Toward Bec? I don't know. I
reach into the cup holder where I stash my phone, thinking
I'll call her, call someone—but my phone isn't there. I've left
it at home. I don't even have my ID.
The lights are out at Bullet Hole, and it's quiet in the
parking lot. I rattle the door; it's locked. I look around for
something to break the glass, and then I realize how stupid
that is—there's no one inside anyway. I run back to the
minivan.
The clock on the dash reads ten minutes to midnight. It's
Tuesday. Of course Bec isn't here; she's at home. And she's
probably asleep—but I have nowhere else to go. I pull back
onto Imperial and speed toward her house.
The streetlights on her block are still out, and her house
is dark when I pull up. There's an old green pickup in the
driveway. Erik's? I don't know. I reach for the keys to turn off
the van, thinking I'll get out and go knock on Bec's window
—and that's when the truck in the driveway roars to life. I
flinch at the growl of the engine. A single headlight
illuminates the garage door in a splash of orange.
“Hey!” a voice shouts from inside the truck.
Panic surges through me.
I peel out from the curb, make a sharp right, and step on
the accelerator. I'm barreling the other way down Imperial
now, pedal to the floor, not knowing where I'm going, not
caring. The streets are almost empty; I pass no one. I check
the rearview, looking for the truck—but I only spot one
headlight, maybe a motorcycle, far behind me.
The buzzing in my head grows louder. My ears fill with
the sound of static, like rushing water; the panic rises. And
rising with it, a cold feeling in the pit of my stomach—a low,
hopeless knowing: whatever I was hiding, whatever I was
protecting, it doesn't matter now.
The tires thump as the minivan crosses the train tracks
again. I think of Andie Gingham—
And suddenly, it's so clear to me why she wanted to
jump.
The water seems to envelop me, rising to my mouth. I'm
breathing in shallow, ragged gasps. Frantically, I roll down
the window to try to get some air. The buzz of the engine
echoes against the concrete freeway underpass. My body
thrums with electric tingles. My vision blurs. I have to do
something. I have to go somewhere.
At some point, I turn. I pass the old hardware store. I pass
the closed furniture showroom with the painted message:
EVERYTHING IS GONE.
I'm not even sure what I'm doing when I pull up behind
the crumbling, windowless three-story building—the movienight
spot where Bec used to come with Gabi before the
football crowd took it over—I just shut off the van and get
out. A stiff autumn wind picks up, scattering the dead leaves
piled against the Dumpster, then swelling to a gust that
rattles the rickety fire escape.
The parking lot is deserted. There's no flickering glow
from the courtyard. There's no Bec; there's no one at all. I'm
alone.
I think of my dad's hands, folding his tie in on itself. The
gap my mother left between us on the couch. I hear blood
pumping past my ears. A fresh wave of cold tingles washes
over me. I shake my head. I can't think about this. I have to
do something.
Anything.
I glance up. Overhead, the sodium street lamp blinks
intermittently, and I see the glint of new metal against the
rusting frame of the fire escape. The ladder has been
retracted, and someone has wrapped a brand-new steel
chain around it, locking it in place, far out of reach.
And suddenly, I want to get on that roof. I need to get on
that roof. I walk over to the Dumpster and start to drag it
toward the ladder—but it stops short, jarring my arms
almost out of their sockets; it's chained up, too. I look
around for something else to stand on—a milk crate, a
pallet, anything—but there's nothing.
Panic rises in me like cold bile, threatening to drown me.
I run back to the van, climb in, and start the engine. I
inch toward the building until bumper touches brick, then
shut off the motor and get out.
Heart pounding, I climb up the van's shallow hood and
reach for the ladder. It's still three feet above my head. I
take a deep breath, bend my knees, and jump.
My fingers barely brush the cracked and rusty surface of
the lower rung, and then I fall. My foot comes down at an
angle and I slip, falling sideways, my hip slamming into the
hood just before my head knocks against the windshield.
My vision goes black.
When I come to, I hear laughter. The sound of an old
engine idling. Doors opening and closing. Heavy doors. The
truck from Bec's driveway—it must have followed me here. I
open my eyes, and I'm blinded by a flood of orange light.
A voice says, “Look who it is.”
I squint. My vision is blurry, but I see two, maybe three
silhouettes moving toward me, casting long, low shadows in
the throw of a single headlight.
“Looking for your girlfriend, you queer fuck?”
My stomach clenches; I recognize that voice. I raise a
hand to shield my eyes from the light. There are three of
them. A broad-shouldered guy with stringy hair stands
closest to me. Next to him is a smaller kid. The glare of the
headlight casts an auburn halo around his head and whites
out the lenses of his wire-rim glasses. Behind them,
lingering close to the truck, is the tallest of the three. I see
him in silhouette, his arm posed at an awkwardly formal
angle.
“I asked you a question,” he says. He steps into the spill
of the headlight, and I see that his arm is in a cast. Panic
grips me.
It's Jim Vickers.
I try to swallow, but my throat is dry. Maybe they just
came here to drink. Maybe they'll only harass me, and then
let me leave.
“I'll . . . I'll just go.” I turn, intending to roll off the hood
and put the van between them and me.
“Wait up,” Vickers says, his voice eerily gentle—and then
a hand grabs my ankle. My heart spasms in my chest. I roll
onto my stomach, trying to pull myself away, but he yanks
on my foot, pulling me back toward him. My fingers grip the
gap between the hood and the side of the car. I can't let him
trap me. I have to get free.
Vickers grunts, yanks harder on my leg. One hand slips,
but I regain my grip. “Cole,” Vickers says. “Help me out.”
I feel a hand grab my other ankle. I struggle to kick, but
the hands are too strong.
“Oh, come on,” Vickers says, almost laughing. They pull
hard, and my palms make a squeaking noise as I'm dragged
backward across the hood. My toes touch asphalt, and then
someone slams my face down on the warm metal, bending
me over the hood.
“You have the right to remain silent,” the long-haired one
says. There's laughter. I struggle to stand, but the hands
push me back down.
“Hurry up, you guys,” a third voice says. “I don't want to
get caught.”
“Shut up, Grady,” Vickers says. “Anybody want to take
bets on what we got here? I got ten bucks on chick.”
“That thing is too ugly to have a pussy.”
Another laugh. Then Vickers says, “One way to find out.”
I feel a hand grip my upper thigh, and I scream. Another
hand covers my mouth. I thrash on the hood, kicking wildly.
“Grady, get over here.”
The third boy moves forward.
“Pin the arms.”
My arms are pulled apart and pinned so that I'm spreadeagled
on the hood. Someone takes a fistful of my hair.
And then his face is against my neck. His dry lips on my
skin. His breath reeking of beer.
He whispers, “Not so tough now, are you? Fucking freak.”
My head is slammed against the hood again. Stars pop in
my vision. I feel my body slacken.
He presses against me harder. Stubble abrading my
cheek, foul breath in my face. His hand grips my thigh, then
moves up to reach between my legs.
“What do you got down here, huh? What do you got for
me?”
I find just one word. “Please,” I say. My voice sounds
weak, thin. “Please.”
He turns his head. “Kill the lights.”
Someone lets go of my arm, but I don't thrash. I don't cry
out. I just hold still. The headlight goes out.
His thumb hooks the waistband of my underwear.
I feel the cool night air against my skin. I focus on the
smooth, warm metal beneath my cheek. I stare at the
windshield, watching the reflection of the flickering sodium
lamp appear and disappear.
And then, all at once, everything lights up. Camera
flashes, I think, vaguely. They've come to take pictures.
But the light doesn't fade.
And then he's off me. The hands release me, and I hear
footsteps moving away. Doors slamming, the truck
reversing, then peeling out on the crumbling asphalt. I want
to move, but my whole body is numb. I just stay there for a
moment, spread across the hood, and then I feel my
shoulders start to shake. But it's not me crying. It's some
other Riley. I roll onto my side and slide down the side of the
van to the pavement.
And then a huge hand touches my shoulder. And I
scream.
“Riley, it's okay. It's okay.” It's Solo's voice.
I look up. Solo and Bec are standing over me.
“You're going to be okay.”
CHAPTER 30
I SIT IN THE PASSENGER seat of Solo's car with my arms
wrapped around my knees. Bec tries to hold my hand from
the backseat, but I don't want to stop hugging my legs. Solo
tells me they're taking me to Park Hills Community Hospital.
I thought there was a special place at hospitals for things
like this. There isn't; I sit in the waiting room at the ER. Solo
talks to the woman behind the counter, and Bec holds my
hand. There's an old man with an oxygen tank sitting across
from me. Against the far wall, a baby is screaming. A
woman in a brown sweater tries to make it stop. I let go of
Bec's hand to cover my ears, and I close my eyes.
I'm in a big room with ten other beds. I'm concealed from
the other patients by a thin blue curtain—but the random
shadows moving beyond it only make me feel more
exposed. Finally, the curtain is pulled aside and a tall
woman enters. She has a long, dark ponytail and a red
blouse under her white coat. She tells me her name, Dr.
Amala, and asks permission to examine me. I feel myself
nod. She pulls on a pair of blue silicone gloves.
She frowns as she works, as though she's cleaning up an
unpleasant mess.
My mother arrives before the police. I don't want to see her.
Officer Dinning is polite and gentle, but it doesn't matter. I
hardly feel anything. I feel like a mannequin, like the parts
being poked and prodded and inspected don't even belong
to me.
I have to lie down for the swabs. My stomach cramps.
I'm okay until the police officer starts taking
photographs. When the first flash goes off, I flinch hard,
knocking the exam kit off the metal cart and scattering its
contents on the floor.
Doctor Amala recites some soothing phrases. A nurse
heaves an exasperated sigh as she collects the spilled
contents and hurries off to get a fresh exam kit.
Officer Dinning waits while I regain my composure. “You
okay?”
I nod, but I keep my eyes closed for the rest of the
photos.
I think I talk to my mother. I don't remember what we say.
Finally, they offer me something to make me sleep. I take
it.
I hear my father's voice, and I open my eyes. He's leaning
over me, his face puffy. When our eyes meet, he lets out a
breath as if he's been holding it for a long time. He
squeezes my hand, but says nothing. I drift back to sleep.
When I wake again, I'm in a different part of the hospital.
The lights are off and the room is empty. There's a window,
but the blinds are drawn. I can hear the hum of machines
and the sound of arguing voices in the hallway. I try to sit
up, but a sharp pain in my abdomen stops me—so I lie back
and fish around for the bed's controls. I find the remote and
raise the bed until I'm in a sitting position. My head aches,
and I reach up to inspect my face. There's a big square
bandage on my left temple and another on my cheek. My
lips are chapped, my tongue thick. I turn my head to look for
water and realize my whole head is thick. Whatever they
gave me to put me to sleep has left me extremely groggy.
There's a plastic cup on the table next to the bed. I reach
for it and miss, knocking it to the floor with a clatter. The
door opens and my father and a nurse rush into the room. I
squint as the lights come on.
My dad leans over me and takes my hand while the
nurse pours me another cup of water, which I sip through a
straw.
“Hey, Riley,” Dad says.
I can't look at him.
“I'll be right outside if you need anything,” the nurse
says, then leaves, closing the door behind her.
“How are you feeling?” my father asks.
I start to answer, but I can't find words. I shrug. He nods.
“Your mother is here,” he says. “She's sedated. When we
heard, she—well, we both . . .” His face goes hard. “Jason
Solomona spoke with the police. They told us what
happened. I mean, everything they could.” Dad frowns,
shakes his head. “Riley, I'm so sorry.”
I want to nod. To say, “It's okay.” I expect myself to. But
something stops me, and I just look at him and take another
sip of water. His eyes sadden, then go dull.
“What can I do for you?” he asks. It comes out a whisper,
almost a prayer. I've never heard my dad's voice sound like
that—weak, almost helpless. Anger courses through me,
heating my face and making my whole head throb. What
right does he have to be weak? To not know what to do?
But I can't say any of this. Not out loud. So I just shake
my head and close my eyes. After a while, a nurse comes in
to give me another sedative.
When I wake the next day, the grogginess is gone, but I'm
sore all over. My head throbs, my legs ache, and there's a
deep heat in my abdomen, as though I've swallowed a
burning coal.
I open my eyes, blink, and then my mother is at my side,
straightening my blankets and brushing hair from my
forehead and fluffing my pillow and a hundred other things
at once, the rustle of her clothing like the flapping of moths'
wings. It doesn't feel like care, it feels like correcting, as
though I should have straightened the blankets myself
before she came, and fixed my own hair, made myself
presentable so she wouldn't have to see me like this. As she
pulls away to look at me, she fixes me with a soft expression
of compassion and remorse, and I suppress a sudden urge
to reach up and slap her.
She leans forward and presses her lips to my forehead.
It's how she used to tell whether I had a fever when I was
little. Now her lips feel cold and foreign on my skin, and I
just hold still until she's done. When she sits back, her
expression hasn't changed, but something underneath is
gone. The look is somehow emptier.
“How are you feeling, honey?” she asks.
“Okay,” I say, fishing for the remote. Mom finds it first
and offers it to me. I snatch it away with more force than I
intend.
She flinches. “I'm so sorry I wasn't here when you woke
up.”
I shrug. “I don't remember it, anyway. I was too doped
up.”
She smiles. I bite back the urge to tell her it's a lie. “Do
you have my phone?”
She shakes her head. “I'm sorry, in the rush to get here,
we just . . .” Then, off my look of disappointment, “I'll have
your father bring it.”
I nod. “Are Bec and Solo still here?”
“Solo stayed until three, but we finally persuaded him to
go home and get some sleep. He promised he'd come back
today.”
I nod. “What about Bec?”
She shakes her head. “I'm sorry, honey. I haven't seen
her. But they weren't letting any visitors in, just family. I'm
sure she'll be here later.”
I nod, but I'm not sure at all. Something about the way
Bec acted when we got to the hospital, the way she avoided
my eyes, makes me think she won't come.
“Can I have some more water?” I say. Mom smiles and
refills my cup, and then we talk. Not about me, or about
what happened, or about anything important. We talk about
hospital food, and how it rained last night for the first time
since June, and she promises to bring my laptop and some
Blu-rays since I'll probably be here for one more night. It's
all so fake I can hardly stand it, like taking a bite of rice and
finding that your mouth is full of hot plastic. I just want to
spit it all out, to throw it up and scream at her.
And then she looks at me, and her face sort of contorts,
as if someone is stabbing her. And I don't know if it's for me,
or for her, or just because she can't hold in everything she's
feeling for another moment. But for that split second, she's
my mom again. Like before the election. Before Pineview.
Before everything. And I stop talking. And she smiles at me.
And I start to sob.
She comes to me, and I drop my water cup on the bed
and just let the tears come. She wraps her arms around me,
and I feel the tepid water spreading out on the blanket,
wetting my leg and soaking through her sweater. I feel her
powdered cheek against mine, her earring pressing into my
face. The sobbing goes up and up until it becomes a frantic
shuddering, and before I know it, a nurse is pulling us apart
and injecting something into my IV, and the world goes
fuzzy, then white.
I wake up again in the late afternoon. Mom is scrunched up
in a plastic chair, fast asleep with her head cocked
uncomfortably to one side. When my dad sees that my eyes
are open, he nudges her and they pull their chairs up next
to the bed.
“You slept for a long time,” Mom says.
“Must be good stuff they're piping in,” Dad says. He
leans in as if to disconnect my IV. “Can I have a hit?”
I don't feel like smiling, but I try. The effect on my
parents is palpable. My mom lets out a little laugh-sob and
covers her mouth. My dad's shoulders relax.
“How are you feeling?” he says.
“I feel like if someone asks me that one more time, I'm
going to start throwing things.”
My parents look at each other. My mother licks her lips,
and my dad clears his throat. “Riley, we want you to know
that—”
I cut them off. “Can we not . . . not right now? Not in
here?”
My mom's face falls. My dad looks relieved.
“Okay,” Dad says. “Yeah, of course.” He glances at the
door. “Riley,” he says. “The police want to take a
statement.”
“No,” I say.
“Riley, sweetheart, the longer you wait, the more chance
they'll—”
“No!” It's almost a shout.
Mom puts a hand on Dad's knee. “Okay, honey,” she
says. “Not till you're ready.”
“Thank you.”
Dad glances at the door. “I don't know if you're up for
visitors, but Jason Solomona is out there waiting to see you.
If you're ready.”
“Yeah. I want to see Solo.” I run a hand through my hair
and touch the bandage on my cheek. I turn to Mom. “Mom,
can you . . .”
“Of course, honey.”
Dad leaves, and Mom grabs a handful of paper towels
from the bathroom, wets them, and wipes my face. After
fidgeting with my hair for a few minutes, she shrugs and
smiles as if to say it's hopeless. She helps me adjust the bed
to a sitting position, gives me a cherry-flavored antacid from
her purse, and kisses my forehead again before leaving and
closing the door behind her.
Solo peeks his head into the room and looks around. When
his eyes land on me, they widen for just a second, and then
he recovers himself and pushes open the door. He's carrying
a brown shopping bag.
“Okay if I come in?” he asks.
“Yeah. But can you turn off some of the lights?”
Solo finds the switches and flips off one bank of
fluorescents. “Better?”
“Yeah, thanks.”
He pulls up one of the chairs, sets down the shopping
bag, and puts his elbows on the bed. I flinch a little, and he
withdraws.
“Sorry,” he says, his face going pale.
“No, it's okay. I'm just twitchy today.”
Gingerly, he leans against the bed again, and this time I
don't flinch. He starts to say something, but I cut him off.
“Please don't ask how I'm feeling.”
He digs into his pocket. “Actually, I was going to ask if
you want a Starburst.” He holds up a fistful of pink candies
and flashes me his goofiest grin.
“Yeah,” I say.
There's an uncomfortable silence as the two of us chew
our Starbursts. Finally, I break it.
“Did Bec come with you?”
Solo starts to speak, then stops and shakes his head.
“What's wrong?”
“Last night, after they admitted you, she . . . she said she
was sorry, and that she had to go.”
“Have you talked to her today?”
“I've called her and texted her about a million times.
She's not answering.” He shrugs. “I don't know what's going
on. Maybe it was all just too intense for her. I mean . . .” He
trails off, looking embarrassed.
A cold, gray ache creeps into my head. She's disgusted.
That's the thought that comes into my mind. I know it's
probably wrong, but I think it anyway. She knows what
happened, and she's disgusted by me.
“I don't want to talk about it.” I say it suddenly, and more
fiercely than I intended.
Solo's eyebrows go up. “Okay.” He shifts in his chair, then
glances around the room as if inspecting it. “I just came to
make sure the hospital kitchen is meeting your culinary
needs as a vegan.”
I roll my eyes. “I don't think the hospital kitchen is
meeting anyone's culinary needs.”
Solo laughs, then reaches into his shopping bag and pulls
out a stack of DVDs. “I have all the Harry Potters, the first
four discs of Battlestar Galactica, and season seven of
Doctor Who.”
“What, no Star Wars?”
Solo sighs. “I wanted to bring the original, unaltered
Episode IV, in which my namesake shoots first, as our Lord
and savior intended.”
“Why didn't you?”
“I only have it on VHS, and my dad's old VHS player
broke halfway through the summer.”
“Well, I've never watched Doctor Who.”
Solo drops his jaw, then covers his mouth in mock
concern, as though I've just told him I have a terminal
disease. “We're going to get through this,” he says, laying
one big hand on my arm.
I know he's joking about me not having watched Doctor
Who, but it sort of lands on me wrong—and all of I sudden
I'm crying again. I pull my arm away and cover my face.
Solo doesn't touch me, but he leans in close. He speaks
softly, but his voice isn't pitying or sad; it's just matter-offact.
“I think this is going to happen for a while,” he says.
“Things making you cry for no reason. There's nothing
wrong with it. My mom says crying is just your body
expelling all the bad stuff. Like a sneeze. Like your soul
sneezing.”
And just like that, my sobs turn into laugher. It's a sort of
horrible, hysterical laughter, but it's better than crying.
“Soul . . . Soul Sneeze . . . ,” I say, gasping for air, “is the
name of my new punk band.”
We eat roughly a metric ton of Starbursts and watch five
straight episodes of Doctor Who. Dad comes in after an hour
and tells me he has to leave, but that he'll be back before
dinner. I tell Mom she can go with him, but she insists on
staying. She doesn't come in, though. She sits in the waiting
room, “catching up on her magazine reading.”
I text Bec, but she doesn't reply.
When dinner comes, Dad pops in to say hi, then leaves
us alone again. Before he closes the door, he gives Solo this
look that makes it completely obvious that he now thinks
Solo is my boyfriend. I wonder silently if my parents will
ever understand anything. Nurses come in twice to give me
meds and check my vitals. Solo eats my Jell-O.
Finally, a nurse comes in and tells him he has ten more
minutes before visiting hours are over. When the door shuts
behind her, Solo turns to me, his eyes serious.
“I want to say something,” he says.
I say, “Okay,” but I'm not sure I want to hear it.
Solo glances at his lap and presses his lips together, like
he does when he's playing video games, then looks up at
me. “I'm sorry for what I said.”
I frown, confused. “What you said about what?”
“Back at the Reagan Years.” His voice is deeper than
usual. “I told you that you—that you invited it. By the way
you dress. Remember? I told you that you were asking for a
fight. Inviting people to . . .” He clears his throat. “And I
want you to know . . . that's bullshit. And it was not okay to
say that.”
I look at him. His face, usually cheerful—even goofy—is
now grim. “Thank you,” I say. “For saying that. And for being
here.”
Solo smiles. Then he reaches into the shopping bag at his
feet. When he comes up again, he's holding a furry brown
bundle. For a moment, I think he's brought an animal into
the hospital—and then I realize what it is: his Chewbacca
backpack.
“I want you to have this,” he says, but his grip on it
seems to tighten.
I reach out and stroke the soft, plush fur, remembering
how Solo made it sound like no big deal that he stopped
wearing it; but he kept it. After all the harassment, he kept
it.
“No way,” I say, shaking my head. “That's your freak
flag. I've already got one.”
He frowns at me, then looks down at the plush
Chewbacca face. His frown relaxes, and slowly, the corners
of his mouth turn up in a relieved smile. He was ready to
give it to me—but I think he really wanted to keep it.
“Solo,” I say. He looks up. “How did you—I mean, you got
there right when . . . How . . .”
“How did we know where to find you?” he asks.
I nod. “How did you even know something was
happening?”
“Bec called me. She saw on the internet what happened
at your dad's fund-raiser. She was kind of freaking out. Said
you weren't answering your phone. She told me to come get
her, so I did.”
“And you came straight to me?”
Solo shakes his head. “We went to your house, but your
parents said you had already left. We got really worried. I
wanted to try Bec's house again; I figured you would go
there.”
“I did,” I say. “But I went to Bullet Hole first.”
“We checked there, too. We must have barely missed
you. But, when you weren't there, Bec just seemed to know
where to go.” Solo swallows hard. “She was acting weird. I
mean, I was worried, too—but she was freaking out, like she
knew something bad was going to happen.” He looks up at
my IV pole. “She was right.”
I stare down at the pale-green sheet covering me. How
could she have known?
“Did you know she had a transgender sister?” I ask. Solo
nods. “Maybe that has something to do with how she
reacted.”
Solo blinks at me as if he's processing the information.
“Maybe,” he says. We sit quietly for a minute, and then he
reaches into his bag again. “Last Starburst?”
We split it, and Solo promises to come over and watch
more Doctor Who with me once I'm home.
When he leaves five minutes later, Solo is wearing his
backpack.
CHAPTER 31
I'M FINALLY DISCHARGED THURSDAY MORNING. Mom
arranges for a substitute to take her classes so she can stay
home with me. Each time she comes to check on me, she
insists on throwing open the curtains to let in the sun, and
then I have to get up to close them after she leaves; the
light bothers my eyes. Finally, I snap at her, and she stops.
I'm afraid to watch TV or go on the internet. I don't want
to hear what they're saying about me, and I don't want to
know how badly my situation has impacted Dad's campaign.
So instead, I finish season seven of Doctor Who, and then
Solo brings the next two when he stops by after school with
my Government homework. I ask about Bec, but he hasn't
heard from her. He acts nonchalant about it—she's pulled
this disappearing act before—but there's something in his
eyes that tells me he thinks this time is different. And so do
I.
That night it takes forever to fall asleep—and when I
finally do, I have horrible nightmares. They're dark and
heavy and vivid, but the details evaporate when I wake, and
I'm left only with the looming sense that something terrible
is going to happen. At one point I wake myself up shouting,
and Dad comes in and gives me a sleeping pill.
On Friday, two detectives show up at my house, but I
refuse to see them. Dad argues with me—even lays a whole
guilt trip on me about preventing future incidents—but I just
shut down and stare at the wall. Eventually, they go away.
By Saturday I'm able to come downstairs and eat
breakfast with Mom and Dad. I want it to be normal, but it's
not. Dad always watches the news in the morning,
especially this close to an election. But today, the TV is off—
for my benefit, I'm sure—and the silence is unbearable. On
top of that, Mom and Dad are acting strangely, leaving a
wide berth when they pass each other in the hallway. I hear
them arguing at night.
I'm sure it's about me.
I can't fight the feeling that this is all my fault. That I
caused this. That somehow, I provoked him to do this—I
don't want to think of his name—by humiliating him in front
of his friends, by rebreaking his arm. By refusing to just be
normal.
My dad was right; I shouldn't have put my most personal
thoughts out in public, where they could be read by anyone.
I feel so stupid for not realizing what a risk that was—not
just to me, but to him, and his campaign. I'm sure I've
damaged his chances at reelection. I'm ashamed, too, that
my parents have to keep taking care of me; I'm a burden to
them now, a broken thing, a weight dragging them toward
the edge of a cliff. And they can't bear to let go, so I pull
them down with me.
Doctor Ann says guilt and shame are normal reactions to
what I've been through. She encourages me to do my own
research online and talk to my parents about it—but I'm not
ready for that. The most important thing, she says, is to
interrupt my thoughts when I'm feeling those things, and to
identify that they're not true—that they're just a reaction to
what happened. Post-traumatic stress.
It's hard to believe her.
I see Doctor Ann on Saturday, then again on Monday. I
don't feel better, really, just clearer. In my head, I
understand what's happening, and I can see the steps to
getting through it. But in my guts, in my heart, I'm lost. Like
I'm out in the middle of the ocean, swimming as hard as I
can with no hope of land and no sign of progress. I see no
shoreline, only an infinite, unbroken horizon.
And the dark, dark water beneath.
At dinner Tuesday night, the silence is too much. Dad
shouldn't be home. He should be out at events and press
conferences, and my mom should be with him. I'm not
ready to face all that myself, not yet—but that shouldn't
hold them back.
Dad eats slowly, saying nothing. Mom pushes cooked
carrots around her plate with her fork. I have to do
something, to say something, or things are only going to get
worse. Finally, I clear my throat. They look up at me,
surprised and expectant.
“What do the polls look like?” I ask.
Dad glances at Mom, then back at me. “Riley, that should
be the last thing on your mind right now.”
“I'd rather not think about the first thing on my mind
anymore.”
Dad blinks, swallows.
I put down my fork. “I want to talk about something else,
something real. I want to know.”
Mom strokes her wineglass nervously with her thumb.
“Honey, what's going on—it's not your fault.”
“Just tell me,” I snap. “I'm not a child. I can handle it.”
Then, more softly, “Please.”
They exchange another glance. Finally, my dad looks me
in the eye and speaks. “Gutierrez is up twelve points. The
pundits are saying it's going to be tight.”
I nod. I figured as much. Then, still looking Dad in the
eye, I say, “Is it because of me?”
Dad's mouth drops open slightly, but he recovers quickly.
“No, it's . . .” He shakes his head. “That's how these things
can go. It's a conservative county. Any kind of story like this
. . .” He trails off, looking at my mother for support. One
part of me appreciates that he's trying to protect me—but
another part is angry at him for thinking I'm too weak to
face the truth.
Mom reaches for my hand, but I withdraw it. The hurt in
her eyes just makes me angrier; she thinks I'm weak, too.
“You're more important to us than all of that,” Mom says.
“Far more important,” Dad echoes.
I nod, feeling heat start to build up behind my eyes.
Dad clears his throat. “I know you're still processing all of
this. And I don't want to push you. But if you don't talk to
that detective soon, they won't be able to—”
I stand up abruptly, cutting him off. “I'm not doing this
right now.”
Dad's face goes red. “You can't just give up like this.”
“Oh,” I say, my voice breaking, “and what about you? It's
okay for you to give up?”
“What?” he says.
“You should be out campaigning, not sitting here,
interrogating me about things you can't fix.”
His face goes white, and when he replies, the words
come out in choppy bursts. “Riley, whatever you think, I'm—
I'm not giving up.”
I clench my fists. “Well, I'm not, either.”
Mom intervenes. “Stop it,” she says, gripping my dad's
arm so hard he winces. She looks at me, and there's a
ferocity in her eyes I've never seen before. “Okay. You don't
have to talk to the police. But you need to talk to us.”
I look at the two of them sitting there, Dad confused,
Mom scared. I think I ought to feel sad, or ashamed, but all I
can feel is the heat in my face and the tension in my jaw. I
take three long breaths. When I open my mouth to talk, the
words won't come out, so I just shake my head.
Mom rises from her chair, walks over, and puts her arms
around me. Dad gets up, too, and places a hand on my
back. We stand there like that for a long time, not talking.
Finally, I push away. “I just need to be alone right now,” I
say. And then, pretending not to see the defeated look on
my mother's face, I turn and head up to my room.
I put an old Trespassers William record on the turntable,
lie back on my bed, and try to lose myself in the ocean of
echoing guitars—but my brain won't be quiet. My dad is
losing ground in the polls because of me. My best friend—
girlfriend?—won't return my calls. And the guy who did this
to me is walking around free, while I'm holed up in my room,
hiding from reporters and the police, isolated from
everyone. I consider calling Solo, but he'll only try to cheer
me up, and that's not what I want right now. I wish I could
blog—but that's out of the question. Even if my anonymity
hadn't been stolen, it would only take one cruel message to
break me into pieces. And I can't fall apart. Not again. So I
turn off my phone, shove my laptop under the bed, and bury
my face in my pillow.
I recognize what's happening—I'm isolating myself, just
like Doctor Ann warned me I might. I'm withdrawing, closing
myself off. I'm acting like a victim—and I hate that word. I
hate it.
I have to do something.
But I don't have the courage to leave the room, let alone
face my blog—and the thought of accidentally coming
across some news article about what happened makes me
physically ill. Still, I can't just lie here; I have to do
something. So, more out of rage and desperation than a
genuine desire to heal, I reach under my bed, retrieve my
laptop, and fire it up. And, with a couple of carefully crafted
Google searches, I start doing the research Doctor Ann
prescribed.
I find dozens of websites about violence against trans
and genderqueer people—but after half an hour of browsing,
I end up back on QueerAlliance.org, reading personal stories
written by survivors. Just like Doctor Ann said, many of them
went through the same things I'm going through now: the
numbness, the isolation, the nightmares. The guilt, the
shame, the lack of appetite. It's weird; part of me is
comforted by this information, but another part is angered
by the thought that I went through this . . . unthinkable
experience only to come out the other side as a
stereotypical victim. A statistic who perfectly fits the profile.
And then I find a story dated June of this year—a month
before I went to Pineview. It's about an eighteen-year-old
trans man named Eduardo who was suffocated by his ex in
an Orange County motel room. When I read the name of the
motel, a shudder runs down my spine; it's three blocks
down from the old hardware store where my dad used to
take me when I was a kid. I've driven by it dozens—maybe
hundreds of times.
I drove by it that night.
I put a hand on my head, feeling the tender spot where it
struck first the windshield and then the hood of my mom's
minivan. And that's when it dawns on me: I'm one of the
lucky ones. Because I survived.
I'm surprised to feel a hot surge of anger rising in my
throat. I survived—and yet, thanks to my famous father, my
story has been all over the news. But what about Eduardo's
story? How is it possible that a murder like this happened so
close, and that I never heard about it on the news? Why
wasn't this a headline?
There are dozens more, but the story that affects me
most is about an eight-year-old trans girl in Ohio whose
father beat her to death with a chair after she told him, “You
know I'm really a girl inside, right?”
I have to wipe away tears to read on.
According to one site, over three hundred acts of
violence have been committed against trans and
genderqueer people this year in the US alone—and thirty of
the victims were children and teenagers. I can only assume
that Andie Gingham is one of them—that is, one of the thirty
that were actually reported.
The thought that I might be number thirty-one sends a
bolt of cold shooting through me.
But the feeling only lasts a moment, and then it's
eclipsed once more by anger. A deep, slow-burning rage—at
Jim Vickers and his accomplices, yes—but it's bigger than
that. It includes Eduardo's ex. Andie Gingham's dad. The
father of that eight-year-old girl. And, somehow, it includes
me, too. For sitting here, unable—or unwilling—to do
anything about it.
But what can I do? Me, who can't even face talking to my
parents, let alone the police. I consider Mike/Michelle's
invitation to speak at the Trans Health Con this weekend,
and I shake my head. I don't have the courage to leave my
room. How could I possibly stand in front of an audience of
brave, out, genderqueer adults and claim to be some kind of
“online community builder”? It's absurd.
But then I think about my blog and my fifty thousand
followers—however unintentionally it came to be, it's an
undeniable number. And even though it's only a virtual
crowd, when I imagine those fifty thousand faces looking at
me, I feel invisible bands begin to tighten around my chest. I
remember vividly the real crowd of reporters outside the
hotel that night—all those faces, all those microphones and
cameras—and the pressure builds until I can't breathe. Until
I just want to disappear.
My phone buzzes on the bedside table, and I flinch. The
display shows Park Hills PD calling for the fourth time today;
I never should have given that officer my cell number.
Ignoring the call, I slide off the bed and go to the window. I
peek out through the curtains and see a news van still idling
on the curb across the street.
Just when I want to be left alone—isolated, Doctor Ann
would say—I'm surrounded instead: by the police and the
media and my parents, and by the overwhelming thoughts
swarming around in my head. I can't go on like this. I need
to talk to someone—someone other than Doctor Ann. And
although Solo has been amazing to come see me every day,
he's not the one I need. I need Bec. Now. And, since she
won't return my calls, I'll have to go to her.
CHAPTER 32
THE CLOCK ON THE DASH reads 10:42 p.m. when I pull
up to Bec's house, and all the lights are out. I try Bec's
phone one more time. It goes straight to voice mail. It's way
too late to knock on the door—so, using my phone as a
flashlight, I walk around the side of the house, fumble with
the latch on the gate, and make my way into the small,
overgrown backyard. The lights are on in the back window,
and there's a small gap in the curtains. I approach the glass
and peer in.
It's Bec's room, all right, but it's a disheveled mess: bed
unmade, dresser drawers hanging open, books piled on
every surface. And there's Bec, sitting on the floor facing
away from the window, staring at a framed photo
surrounded by lit candles.
Gently, I tap on the glass, and she looks up in surprise.
When our eyes meet, I take a step back; her face is drawn,
her eyes hollow. Her hair is short and sticks up in clumps, as
though she chopped it off with dull scissors. Finally, she
crosses to the window and opens it.
“Hi,” I say.
“Hi.” Her voice comes out like a croak, as if she hasn't
used it all day.
“Can I come in?”
She looks up at me, glances back at the door, and then
sets about removing the screen from her window. I climb
through, and she closes it behind me.
“Sorry if I scared you,” I say. Bec shoves aside a pile of
clothes and drops onto her bed. “But you weren't answering
your phone, and I thought it was too late to ring the
doorbell.”
Bec shrugs. “Erik's at my dad's, and my mom took, like,
three Ambien. She would've slept through it.”
I lean up against the wall next to her desk. “You look
worse than I do,” I say. I hope to tease a smile out of her,
but she just nods. “How come you haven't been answering
my texts?”
Bec gestures vaguely at the door. “I dropped my phone in
the toilet. I didn't want to talk to anyone.” She licks her
chapped lips and looks up at me. “How's your head?”
“It looks worse than it is.” I move toward the bed and sit
down next to her. I hope she'll take my hand, but she makes
no move to touch me. I clear my throat. “I want to ask you
about what happened that night.”
As though she's been dreading this, Bec closes her eyes
and nods.
“Did you know it was him? Vickers?”
“Yes.”
“Did you tell the police?”
She nods again.
“Then why haven't they arrested him?”
She punches her thigh with a fist. “I knew it was him, but
. . . that night, Solo and I hardly saw anything. Guys running.
A truck pulling away. We couldn't see faces, let alone a
license plate. When the detective took our statements at
the hospital, he acted like we were wasting his time.” Bec
buries her face in her hands. “It's my fault,” she says.
“What are you talking about?”
“All of it. It's my fault. That's why I couldn't talk to you.”
My stomach twists, seeming to understand something
my mind doesn't grasp yet.
When Bec speaks again, her voice is low, and she won't
meet my eyes. “Erik hacked your computer. He found out
about your blog.”
My heart begins to pound. “What?”
“The night you came over to study. When he set up the
Wi-Fi on your laptop, he stole your browser history.”
I stare at her. “I don't understand. Are you telling me that
Erik is the one who outed me? That he called the reporters?”
“No,” Bec says. “It's more complicated than that.” She
lets out a long breath. “Erik had this fantasy of being on the
football team. You saw him, working out with that video
game. I guess he already knew who you were when you
came to the door, because he'd overheard Vickers talking
about you. So when I handed him your laptop that night, he
saw a chance to get in good with the team. He hacked
whatever he could and gave it to Vickers as some kind of
bribe.”
I stare down at the patchy brown carpet, trying to
process what I'm hearing. I remember spotting the two of
them on the athletic field that day: Vickers, apparently
teaching Erik how to throw. I remember Erik digging
something out of his pocket and handing it to him.
“And then,” Bec continues, “when we humiliated Vickers
at the football game, I guess he just snapped. He had your
blog, he knew your name. He must have Googled you, found
out who your dad was. Read about the fund-raiser, and then
made his plans to get back at you.”
My mind is spinning, my face starting to tingle; Erik knew
about my blog and gave the info to Vickers, who waited until
the right moment to out me. The moment when it would
cause the most damage.
“So . . . ,” I begin, then pause. There's so much, it's hard
to wrap my mind around it. “How do you know all this?” I
ask.
“Erik told me,” she says. But something in her eyes tells
me it's not the whole truth.
“He admitted it to you?”
She nods.
“When did you find out?”
Bec starts to say something, then drops her gaze to her
lap.
“When?” My voice sounds hard, and Bec seems to shrink
from it. She glances up at the door, then back at me.
“The night you came over to study. Right after you left, I
caught him looking at your blog. And I confronted him.”
My chest tightens. “So you . . . you read it?” I ask.
Bec doesn't respond.
“Did you read it?”
She nods.
“All of it?”
She nods again, and suddenly I can't breathe.
“But I made him erase everything he stole,” she says. “I
thought it was gone, I swear—but he must have, I don't
know, emailed it to himself before I caught him.”
I put a hand on top of my head as if to hold myself down;
the room has begun to tilt.
“But he didn't tell me the rest until—until after the . . .
after it happened. I swear, Riley, I'm telling you the truth.”
But I'm not listening; I can't listen. She read my blog. She
knew everything, all along. Her invitation to the Q, our
“dates,” what I thought was flirting—was any of that even
real?
My heart turns to lead in my chest.
“I'm sorry,” she says. “I should've told you sooner. I
didn't think—”
“So,” I interrupt, my voice trembling. “I was just a project
to you?”
Bec's head snaps up. “What do you mean?”
“You took pity on me.” Heat rises to my face. “Thought
you could ‘fix' me.”
“What? No. Riley, you know that's not how it was. I didn't
—”
I stand up, cutting her off. “What do I know? That you
invaded my privacy? That you lied to me?”
Bec opens her mouth as if to reply, but only shakes her
head.
“And when it really counted, when I really needed you—
you couldn't face it, so you ran away.” I shake my head; now
I'm the one who's disgusted. “You never liked me for me.
You couldn't save your fucked-up sister, so you thought
you'd try to save me instead.”
Bec goes white.
I turn and stride to the closet. I dig my fingernails under
the edge of the big rainbow decal on the closet door—Gabi's
decal—and I tear at it, ripping it off in strips, shredding it.
Something pops in my head—like a water balloon bursting—
and I start to scream. My vision goes blurry. The sound of
blood pumping through my ears is deafening. I push away
from the closet door and stagger back toward Bec, yelling
incoherently. My shins smash into the desk chair and I cry
out. I stumble backward and kick the chair as hard as I can,
sending paperback books flying.
And then Bec is on her feet, wrapping her arms around
me, holding me. I thrash against her, slapping her back,
trying to kick her, but she just holds me tighter, and my
screams turn into wails. My legs give out, and I drop like a
rag doll. Bec gets down next to me, not saying anything,
just holding me. Just holding me.
There's a knock on the door, and a slurred, groggy voice
yells, “Francesca? What's going on in there?”
“Nothing, Mom,” Bec says. “I just had a bad dream. Go
back to bed.”
“Is that you yelling?”
“Go back to bed, Mom!”
Her mom mutters a few more incoherent protests, then
withdraws. Bec holds me the whole time.
Gradually, my breathing slows. My heart rate goes down.
I blink as Bec's face comes back into focus. She looks like
herself again—her eyes are still hollow and her chopped hair
still sticks up at random, but she's back in control.
“I have to go check on my mom,” she says. “Stay here.
I'll be right back.” She stands and quietly leaves the room.
I cross to the bed, and my eyes find the framed picture
Bec was staring at when I knocked on the window. It's a
photo of a beautiful, dark-haired, fine-featured child about
six years old, wearing a pair of patent leather Mary Janes.
It's Gabi.
My phone vibrates in my pocket, and I check the display
—it's Mom. They must have discovered I left. With a pang of
guilt, I decline the call and text her back instead.
I'm okay. Had to see Bec. Home in an hour.
Sorry.
Bec returns with a cold, wet cloth, and I use it to wipe my
face as we both sit back down on her bed.
“Is she okay?” I ask.
“Yeah,” Bec replies. “Are you?”
I look at her. “No. I'm pretty not-okay.”
Bec nods, looks away.
“But I'm more okay than your hair.”
She groans and runs a hand across her almost-buzzed
scalp. “I'm so pissed I did that.”
“I actually kind of like it,” I say.
She rubs at it again. “I feel like a boy.”
I smile. “I know what you mean. Sometimes.”
Bec smiles back, that crooked smile, and warmth floods
through me. I put the cold cloth against the back of my
neck.
“I'm sorry I said that. About your sister. And about you.”
Bec shrugs. “You were pissed off.” There's a long silence
as the two of us look at each other. Then she says, “When I
saw the footage of you online, getting mobbed by reporters
outside that hotel, I knew something was going to happen. I
called Solo. We went looking for you.”
“He told me,” I say.
Bec's gaze drops to her lap, and she bites at her lip ring.
“I didn't know Vickers was going to do what he did. But . . . I
thought you might do something.”
“Like Gabi.”
“Yeah.”
I glance at the photo of Bec's sister, and a lump forms in
my throat. I haven't talked about why I ended up in Pineview
since my first session with Doctor Ann. I swallow and look up
at Bec. “I already did,” I say. She cocks her head. “Over the
summer, I chased a bottle of Xanax with a glass of my dad's
favorite Irish whiskey.”
“Why?”
“A lot of reasons, I guess.” I look up at the ceiling. “I was
into this guy, Derek. He was my friend, and then I made it
weird, and he just . . . cut me off. I wasn't on meds yet, or in
therapy or anything, and it kind of wrecked me. I didn't flush
my phone, but I threw it pretty hard. Smashed the screen.” I
show her; she nods. “Anyway. I was getting ready for one of
my dad's big events, like the fund-raiser last week.” God,
was that only last week? “Getting dressed up—it triggers my
dysphoria. It was especially bad that night, and it
snowballed into a full-on panic attack. And I just . . . I felt
like it would never end. Like there was no other way out.”
Bec nods. I take a deep breath, and then I just keep talking.
I tell Bec about Pineview. I tell her about Doctor Ann.
When I'm done, Bec starts to speak, but stops herself.
“What?” I ask.
“You never told me why you transferred.”
“You don't want to hear that sob story.”
Bec raises her eyebrows. “You owe me at least one, or
we'll be out of balance.”
I smile. “Fair enough.” I lean back against the wall. “At
Immaculate Heart, I had to take PE—I don't at Park Hills, I
used my dad's pull to get it waived.” I glance over at Bec. “I
guess that makes me a hypocrite, huh?”
“No,” she says. “It makes you smart.”
“I guess. Anyway, I had to change in the locker room in
front of other people. That's when I started having really
bad anxiety. I couldn't eat. I lost a lot of weight. By the end
of sophomore year I was having panic attacks two, three
times a week.”
“Wow,” Bec says. I nod.
“Being undressed in front of other people . . . it's hard.
Especially on days when I don't feel like the gender I was
assigned at birth, you know?” Bec nods, and I wonder if she
ever had this conversation with Gabi. “So I started wearing
my gym clothes under my school uniform every day. You can
imagine the harassment. One kid asked me if I was Mormon,
and was I hiding my magic underwear. Catholic kids, you
know? Obsessed with sex and religion.” Bec smiles.
“Anyway. One day—this was during the last week of
sophomore year—I was changing in the locker room, and
three of my classmates came in. They said school was
almost out, and before summer vacation started, they
wanted to see the magic underwear.” I swallow hard. “It
wasn't enough that I had to wear that fucking uniform every
day. It wasn't enough that I changed right in front of them.
They wanted to see my genitals.” My voice breaks, and it's
a few moments before I can go on. “I refused. So two of
them pinned me against the lockers, while the other one
pulled down my gym shorts so everyone could see. There
were three other people in the locker room, but no one tried
to stop it; they all just watched. One kid was about to take a
picture when the coach finally came in and put a stop to it.”
I expect Bec to act surprised, or to try to comfort me, but
she doesn't, and I'm grateful. I don't want her pity right now
—just her listening. And she seems to know that.
“At the time, I thought that was the worst thing that
would ever happen to me.”
I watch Bec's jaw tighten. She nods. She gets it. I look
out the window at the big sycamore tree just beyond the
back fence. The branches are swaying in the strong autumn
wind, leaves detaching like skydivers jumping out of a
plane.
“I thought if I changed schools, things would be better. I
thought I could get away from people like that.” I turn back
to Bec. “But there are people like that everywhere. Just like
there are people like me everywhere. Like Andie Gingham.
Like your sister.”
Bec's eyes drift to Gabi's photo. She shifts on the bed,
runs a hand over her scalp.
I glance up at the shredded rainbow sticker on the closet
door. I want to tell Bec everything that's happened to me:
being stalked online, having my locker vandalized. Coming
out to my parents. And, if I could tell anyone about what
happened that night—how they held me down, how his
stubble felt against my cheek—I would tell Bec. But now
isn't the time. Right now, I just want her back. Us back.
“Riley,” Bec says. I look up at her. “I'm sorry I didn't stay
at the hospital. I'm sorry I left. I just—”
“No,” I say. “You don't have to apologize. I didn't mean
what I said, earlier. About you running away. You were there
when it counted.”
For a moment, I think Bec is going to cry; but she
doesn't. She just takes my hand.
My parents are in the kitchen waiting for me when I get
home. Mom rushes across the room to embrace me.
“Oh my God, Riley, we were so worried.” She steps back,
holding me at arm's length. Her hair is a tangled mess and
her eyes are puffy. “Don't you ever do that again. You
understand me?”
“I'm sorry, Mom. I won't.” I glance at Dad, expecting to
see his face red with anger, but he looks calm. “I just . . . I
needed to see Bec. And I didn't want to talk to you about it
first.”
Dad walks over and puts an arm on Mom's shoulder.
“Well, now I think it's time we did talk.”
Mom makes tea and we sit around the kitchen table with
her in the middle, gripping both our hands as though she's
afraid the house might tip over and sink.
Dad looks at me. “You want to start?”
“Okay,” I say. But then I just stare at the table, trying to
think of what to say. Finally, I speak up. “I don't know what
you think about me.”
Mom inhales sharply and grips my hand even tighter.
“We love you. You know we love you.”
“I know,” I say. “But that's not what I meant.”
She glances at my dad. He looks intensely
uncomfortable, and does his habitual throat clearing before
he speaks up. “Well,” he says. “We've only had a few days
to process all this. And obviously, the circumstances weren't
ideal when you told us.”
“I know,” I say.
Dad continues. “And, so much has happened since, we
haven't really had time to deal with . . . with your gender
identity stuff.” His mouth tightens into a thin line.
“Okay,” I say. “But you have to have some reaction,
right?”
Dad blinks, then looks pleadingly at my mother.
“Well, honey,” she says, “this is all very new to us. I
mean, we understand gay and straight. And we know there
are transgender people. But, until you said it out loud,
neither of us had heard of ‘gender fluid.'” She glances at
him. “We had to look it up.”
Dad grips his mug. “Honestly, there's so much
information out there, and a lot of it contradicts itself. The
pronouns and the . . . terminology, it's very complex, and . .
.”
Mom cuts in. “But we love you no matter what, Riley.
You're our child.”
Dad looks at her, and then he nods. “Your mother's
right.” His eyes meet mine and he says, “But you're going to
have to help us navigate this whole thing. We're old and set
in our bipolar ways.”
“Binary, Dad,” I say.
He nods. “Right. Binary.”
And then Mom sort of lunges forward and engulfs me in
an awkward, suffocating hug—and after a moment, I hug
her back. I expect my shoulders to start shaking, my eyes to
start gushing tears, to have some profound catharsis—but
apparently, I'm cried out for the night. Finally we release
each other. Dad gives me a thin smile.
I say, “I think I'm ready to talk to the police now.”
Dad raises his eyebrows. “Are you sure?”
“Yeah,” I say. “But, will you guys . . . will you stay with me
while I call?”
“Of course we will,” he says.
The line connects on the third ring, and a man's voice
asks whom I'd like to be connected with.
I say, “Officer Dinning, please.”
CHAPTER 33
“THIS IS THE PART WHERE I don't ask you how you're
feeling,” Doctor Ann says, taking her usual seat.
“And this is the part where I tell you I don't know.”
She makes an uncharacteristic throwaway gesture with
one hand. “Make something up.”
I frown; is this some new tactic to get me talking? “Make
something up . . . you mean, lie?”
Doctor Ann glances at her watch. “Well, it's a fifty-minute
session. If you're not going to talk about your feelings,
you've got to say something.”
I blink at her. “Something.”
Doctor Ann laughs—and then I do, too. It's the first time
I've laughed without crying since the assault. It's the first
time I've thought of it as the assault. Today is Thursday; it's
been over a week.
“What's going on over there?” Doctor Ann asks.
I fold my arms in front of my chest and look down at my
feet. I know it's a defensive posture, but I need a little
defense right now. “They arrested Jim Vickers,” I say.
Doctor Ann raises her eyebrows. “When?”
“Yesterday.”
She leans back in her chair. “So you spoke to the police.”
I nod. “Tuesday night. I didn't want to go to the station,
but with reporters still camped outside my house, we
couldn't exactly have cop cars showing up—so the officers
took one of their personal cars and came in regular clothes
in the middle of the night.”
“That was very accommodating of them,” Doctor Ann
says.
“Congressman perk,” I say.
“Are you relieved?”
“A little. Not as much as I expected to be.”
“I get that,” she says. We look at each other for a
moment, and I get the feeling she really does get it. Like,
maybe she's been through something similar. But before I
can ask, she goes on. “So you told them what happened,
and they arrested him?”
“Not exactly. They said they'd question him, but they
needed more than just my word to actually drag him away
in handcuffs. They must have gotten something, though,
because my dad made some calls this morning and found
out he was in custody. My guess is one of his accomplices
finally told the truth. Cole, maybe. Or the redheaded kid,
Grady. I don't know. I answered all the cops' questions, but
they've been super reluctant to tell me anything.”
Doctor Ann shakes her head. “When the people involved
are minors, they can't. Even when they want to.”
“I know, they explained it to me about nine times. And
what they did tell me was only after my dad leaned on
them.”
“Did you find out anything about your stalker?”
“Yes and no.”
“What do you mean?”
“Well, after Vickers did what he did . . . I just assumed it
had been him all along.”
Doctor Ann nods. “I would have, too.”
“But they checked all his stuff—his phone, his laptop—
and they didn't find any evidence. So, it's possible he was
sending me those messages from a friend's computer, or
from the library or something—but it could be somebody
else entirely. They're still looking.”
She nods. “Are you angry? Are you disappointed?”
I look at Doctor Ann, amazed that she can read me so
well. “Both, I think. The thing is, if Vickers wasn't the one
sending the messages, it means he's in less trouble.
Because stalking is a separate charge, and it would have
helped prove that he was thinking about the . . . the assault
beforehand.” I almost don't say the word, and when I do, it
sounds like gibberish to me.
“Do you ever find yourself asking why?”
I frown. “Why what? Why someone stalked me? Why
Vickers did what he did?”
She nods. “Either. Both.”
“I don't know. The cops told me Vickers's dad is a
minister at a pretty intense church. So, maybe it has to do
with that. Or maybe he was just getting back at me for
breaking his arm, and he was drunk, and it went too far.” I
sniff, suddenly aware my nose is running. Doctor Ann hands
me a tissue. I wipe my nose and look up at her. “I don't
know. I don't know if I want to know, or if it even matters.”
Doctor Ann looks like she's about to argue, maybe to
correct something I've just said, but I interrupt her. “Can I
get some water?”
“Of course,” she says, and crosses to the cooler on the
other side of the office. After a moment, she returns with a
little plastic cup. I take a sip, and the cool water feels good
on my throat.
“They're talking about this being a hate crime,” I say.
“It's kind of surreal. Like something from the news.”
“Yeah,” Doctor Ann says. “I bet it feels strange.”
“Solo said they went all CSI on my locker. But, again, the
police wouldn't tell us anything—even when my dad gave
them his righteous elected-official act—because they're
‘protecting the identity of minors.' Which is pretty ironic.”
“And frustrating.”
“Yeah. So, anyway. The first part of the interview was
okay, but then it got hard.”
“What was hard about it?”
“Giving my statement. They wanted to record me talking
about the assault.”
“Is there anything about that you want to share?”
I shake my head. “We've already been through all that,
and it will just make me a mess.”
“That's fair,” she says. We look at each other for a
moment, almost like opponents in a chess game. Then
Doctor Ann says, “How's the anxiety been?”
And just like that, we've moved on.
“It's leveled out some,” I say. “But it doesn't really go
away. Like, there's this constant buzz in the background. My
face pretty much starts tingling when I wake up, and doesn't
really stop until I go to sleep. Maybe it keeps tingling while
I'm asleep. I don't know.”
“What else?”
“Bright lights bother me. Bec bought me these yellow
sunglasses to wear indoors. She says they make me look
like Bono.”
Now, Doctor Ann does take the pad from her desk. She
makes a note, and then sits back down. “I'm going to adjust
your meds.” Before I can protest, she gives me a stern look.
“Just slightly. And temporarily. You need the relief.”
“When you crank up my dosage, I feel foggy.”
“You taking the bar exam or something?” She puts down
the pad. “Let's try foggy for a month instead of buzzing. Just
for a change. Okay?”
“Okay.”
“How are you doing with your mom and dad?”
“We talked. Not about what happened that night—I
mean, they were there when the police interviewed me—but
we talked about me. About being gender fluid.” I pause, but
Doctor Ann doesn't say anything, so I go on. “Dad's being
cool about it. But I think he might not believe it's a real
thing. Or, maybe he thinks it's just a phase and I'm going to
grow out of it.”
“Does that bother you?”
I shrug. “I mean, he's a Catholic congressman. It might
take him a while to wrap his brain around having a gender
fluid kid. I'm giving him the benefit of the doubt.”
At this, Doctor Ann smiles—but she recovers her clinical
expression quickly.
“Have you talked about his campaign?”
“Yeah. He says he doesn't blame me, but I think he does,
a little. But I think he forgives me, too.” I stare down at the
abstract pattern in the carpet. “I didn't know it was possible
to blame someone and forgive them at the same time. But I
think it is.”
“And how about your mom?”
“I think my mom accepts it without really understanding
it. After we talked . . . I got the feeling she's just relieved it's
out in the open. But I don't know.” I run my finger back and
forth over one of the chair's brass buttons. The texture is
soothing. “I think she's . . . disappointed. Mom likes to plan
things—to pick out the colors and the flowers and the
clothes. I think the idea that she can't take me shopping for
a tux or a prom dress leaves her feeling kind of . . .
cheated.”
“You could let her take you shopping for both,” Doctor
Ann says.
I look up at her. “You know, as utterly unbearable as that
sounds, I think she would love it.”
Doctor Ann waves a hand. “No charge.”
I laugh. That's the second time.
She gives me a faint smile. “Have you thought about
when you might go back to school?”
I nod. “Tomorrow.”
She raises her eyebrows. “You feel ready for that?”
“No. I'm tingling head to toe just thinking about it.” But
despite my nerves, my voice sounds clear, calm. It surprises
me. “But I can't hide forever.”
“Another week isn't forever.”
“I know. But I've already wasted so much time hiding.
And I feel like the longer I wait, the harder it will be to go
back. You know?”
Doctor Ann sits back in her chair and lets out a long,
uncharacteristically dramatic sigh. “Well,” she says. “You
don't need my approval.”
I frown. “I know. But I sort of want it.”
She inhales through her nose and shakes her head.
“Riley, I don't know what to say. You've been through a lot.
I'd hate to see you push yourself too hard and have a
setback. But everyone heals in different ways and at
different speeds. And if you feel compelled—from the inside,
not by someone else—then I think you should do it.”
A shudder of relief runs through me. “Thanks,” I say.
“Do you have a plan for how to get through the day?”
“Half a day,” I say. “But, yeah, I have a plan.”
“Why half a day?”
I smile. “I have a feeling I'm going off campus for lunch.”
CHAPTER 34
“SCHOOL SORT OF SUCKED WITHOUT you,” Solo says
as we pull onto Imperial Highway. It's Friday morning—ten
days after the assault—and I'm more than a little nervous
about returning.
I smile at him. I almost say, “That's sweet,” but it feels
too girly. So instead, I just say, “Right on,” in a terrible
Matthew McConaughey voice. Solo gives me an odd look,
like I've just said something in Klingon; apparently I
overshot “not girly” and landed in “awkward.” I guess some
things don't change. I make a mental note to blog about it.
“So, I got a text this morning,” Solo says. “Apparently the
police showed up at Sierra Wells's house last night.”
I whirl to face him. “Why? To question her about
Vickers?”
“That was my first guess, too—but word has it she's the
one who trashed your locker.”
I gape at him. “What?”
“Yeah,” he says. “Some freshmen said they saw her
trying to jimmy the lock while everyone else was in class.”
I stare blankly out the windshield, stunned. I picture the
letters pasted in my locker.
POOR LITTLE RILEY
I put a hand to my mouth. “Oh God.”
Solo turns to look at me. “What?”
“Sierra.”
“What about her?”
I don't reply; it takes me a moment to process it all.
When Vickers found about my blog, of course he would
have showed it to his girlfriend. I recall that first anonymous
hate message—not “your a fag”; that didn't have the same
threatening undertone as the others. No, the first one that
hit me hard was: go back to where u came from dyke r
school doesn't need another faggot.
I try to remember when I received it—only a day, or
maybe two days after I embarrassed Sierra in front of her
friends with my “you're really not my type” comment. Did
she send that first message as payback?
Then the Andie Gingham story broke, and I got c u at
lunch. fuckin tranny. That must have been her, too. And,
after I emasculated her boyfriend by breaking his arm at the
football game, she wrote: poor. little. RILEY. The same
message the vandal had pasted inside my locker. If Sierra
did the locker, then she sent the messages, too.
“Riley,” Solo says, snapping me out of my trance.
“What's going on?”
“Someone was stalking me on my blog,” I say, only half
aware of the words coming out of my mouth.
“What?” Solo says.
And then, as quickly as I can, I fill him in on the whole
story, from the first anonymous hate mail to the final
message pasted in my locker.
When I'm finished, I sink back into the seat, stunned, and
more than a little scared.
“Oh shit,” I say.
“I don't get it. Aren't you happy she's at least being
questioned?”
“I am, but . . . if what she did to my locker was payback
for humiliating her boyfriend, what will she do when she
finds out I got him arrested?”
“I wouldn't worry about that,” Solo says. His voice is low,
almost a growl.
“What does that mean?”
“It means me and the rest of the guys on the team have
your back. Anybody tries to fuck with you, they'll wish they
were safe in prison.”
I gape at Solo, at the sudden ferocity in his eyes.
He glances over at me. “What?”
“I've just never seen you go all papa bear like that. It's
kind of hot.”
Solo's cheeks redden, and he adjusts his grip on the
steering wheel. He signals for a turn, and the hatchback
shudders as he shifts into a low gear to climb the hill toward
school.
“So, what are people saying?”
“Oh, there's the usual vomit of prejudiced nonsense,” he
says, recovering. “Most people are just confused or
ignorant. Or both. Some of the results are funny, actually.”
“Funny?”
“For example. The Fellowship of Christian Athletes got
together and made temporary tattoos of that verse from
Leviticus. You know, ‘Man shall not lay within four cubits of
another penis, lest he be smitten,' or whatever. They
handed them out at lunch like black armbands. And then, in
response, the theater gang made these stickers that said,
‘Leviticus 19:28,' and plastered them all over the school.
“What's Leviticus 19:28?”
“It's the verse that forbids tattoos.”
I laugh.
Solo continues. “So the bad news is, most people are
grossly misinterpreting what's going on. But the good news
is that there's open conversation about it.”
We pull into a parking space at the far end of the lot, and
Solo shuts off the car.
“So,” he says, drumming his fingers idly on the steering
wheel. “Bec's meeting us before?”
“Yeah.”
“You're sure you want to do this?”
I glance up at the concrete walls of Park Hills High School
and let out a long breath. “I'm sure.”
Everyone looks up from their desks as Solo and I walk into
AP English five minutes late. I stop, frozen in the moment as
the door hisses shut behind me on its pneumatic hinge.
I've been absent from school for over a week, and during
that time, my story has dominated the news; of course
they're looking. My heart gives one frantic thump in my
throat, and then settles into an elevated but steady rhythm
as I move toward my desk. I glance at Sierra's usual desk—
it's empty—and breathe a sigh of relief before moving down
the aisle toward my own. When I've taken my seat, I look
over at Solo for moral support. He obliges by rolling his eyes
into the back of his head and giving me the finger. I grin in
spite of myself.
Miss Crane continues her lesson, taking our entrance in
stride; but when I sit down, I catch her looking at me. She
smiles, but it's a sad smile, and I'm surprised to see not
pity, but genuine understanding in her eyes. I wonder what
she's been through.
She then proceeds to set the world record for Dropping
Most Harry Potter References in a Fifty-Minute Period.
As I'm reaching for the door of Mr. Hibbard's room, a voice
from behind stops me.
“Riley, wait up.”
I turn around, and my jaw drops. It's Casey Reese—but
it's not the pretty, long-haired girl I know from French. This
Casey Reese has short, dyed-brown hair parted neatly on
the side. She—he, I think—is wearing a bow tie, and looks
like something out of a Banana Republic ad. But the eyes
and the voice are unmistakably Casey's.
“Holy—” I say, clapping my hand to my mouth.
Casey's face splits in a wide, bright grin. “Surprised?”
“I'm sorry, that was so rude. I just—it took me a minute
to—you look fantastic.”
“Thanks.” Casey's smile dissolves into a more serious
expression. “I heard what happened. I mean, everybody
heard, but . . .” He shakes his head. “Sorry. This isn't going
well, let's start over.” He puts out his hand. “Hi, I'm Casey.”
I smile and shake it. “Riley.”
“Well, Riley,” Casey says, “I'm a boy. And you gave me
the courage to say that out loud.”
I blink. My mouth has gone dry.
“You don't have to say anything,” Casey says. “I just
wanted you to know that . . . I wouldn't have come out if it
weren't for you. So, thank you.”
I glance around the hall. Two girls stare at us as they
walk by. I don't even react. I look back at Casey.
“Are they giving you hell?” I ask.
He shrugs. “Not so much. I mean, yeah. But . . . so what?
I am who I am, you know? And it feels good not to hide it
anymore.”
I nod. “I guess I haven't really gotten to that part yet.”
Just then, the bell rings. Casey opens his mouth like he's
going to say something else, something important, but
instead, he just smiles.
“See you in French?” he asks.
“Absolutely,” I say. And then I watch as Casey turns and
walks off to class. Struts, really. His confidence is magnetic. I
feel a swell of pride—and envy.
When then bell rings, I turn away from Mr. Hibbard's
room. I find a secluded spot in the back stairwell, pull out
my phone, and place a call.
“Hi, Mike/Michelle? It's Riley.”
After French, Solo “picks me up” outside Madame Bordelon's
room. He's insisted on being my bodyguard as we cross the
campus to meet Bec. I'm grateful, because the anxious
buzzing in my head has been getting progressively worse all
morning, and having him around helps. As we're passing the
lockers, we turn the corner and I spot a short brunette girl
walking toward us. She looks up, and I recognize her at once
—it's Sierra Wells.
I stop, and she does, too. We stand there for a long
moment, staring dumbly at each other. The buzzing in my
head gets louder. My chest goes tight. Solo puts a protective
hand on my shoulder.
Sierra looks from me to Solo and then back again, like
she's sizing us up for a fight—and I'm caught completely by
surprise when she actually speaks.
“I didn't have anything to do with what Jimmy did,” she
says, her tone daring me to argue. At first, I'm too stunned
to respond—and then Solo takes a step forward.
“You did plenty,” he says. “You should be in jail.”
I surprise myself by reaching out to touch his arm with
my tingling fingertips. “It's okay, Solo,” I say. He looks at
me, concerned, and I give him a reassuring nod. He takes a
step back, and I turn to face Sierra.
Her expression is hard—not angry, but closed off.
Withdrawn. Whatever vulnerability still exists in her, I got
my last look at it that day in Miss Crane's classroom when I
walked in on her crying. Now, her shield is up, and I doubt if
any of my words will get through. But what I have to say
isn't for her, anyway. It's for me.
I swallow, and fight to keep my voice even. “I'm not
going to stop being who I am just because you don't like it.”
Sierra glances around uncomfortably, as if she doesn't want
to be seen having a conversation with me. I clear my throat
—Congressman Cavanaugh style—and she turns her
attention to me again. “And I'm not going to stop talking
about it just because you don't understand it.” Knees
shaking, I take a small step toward her. “I'm only going to
talk louder.”
I raise my voice on this last word, and Sierra glares at
me. Just when I think she's about to retort, her bottom lip
quivers, and her face softens. She looks down at her feet
and whispers something—it could be “I'm sorry,” but her
voice is too quiet to be sure—and then she hitches her bag
up on her shoulder and walks away.
As soon as she turns the corner, I have to steady myself
by grabbing Solo's massive arm.
“You okay?” he says.
“I will be,” I reply.
Bec is waiting for us behind the language arts wing, and
when I see her, I throw my arms around her and bury my
face in her neck. The collar of her denim jacket is rough and
real against my cheek.
“What happened?” she asks. Bec holds my hand while
Solo fills her in on the encounter with Sierra.
“You know,” Bec says, shaking her head, “all this time, I
thought it was me. But it turns out you're the one. You're the
one who has it.”
I frown. “Has what?”
“The overdeveloped sense of drama.”
I smile.
“Put your glasses back on, Bono,” Bec says. “We have an
entrance to make.”
My heart rate seems to accelerate with every step we take
toward the cafeteria, and by the time we're standing at the
top of the stairs, the blood is pounding in my ears and my
vision has gone full-tunnel.
“Are you all right?” Bec asks.
“No,” I say, breathing in shallow gasps. “I'm having a—
full-on—panic attack.”
“Should we go back?”
I shake my head. “No. We walk—all the way through. No
matter—what.”
Bec looks at Solo, then back at me. “Okay,” she says.
And something seems to snap inside me, like a spell
breaking. Like that feeling when your ears pop as the plane
is landing—and suddenly you can hear again.
I blink. The tunnel vision is gone. My heart is beating a
thousand times a second, my breath still coming in shallow
gulps, but I don't care. I take one step, then another. Then
another.
And then we're in the Gauntlet, all three of us, walking
right down the center of the aisle. I glance over at a table
full of kids eating while they study, and make eye contact
with a tall, skinny guy in a red T-shirt. He smiles and nods,
but there's no special recognition in it; he's just being polite.
We pass the band kids, but no one looks up. As we approach
the football table, someone calls out to Solo. He waves in
response. Vickers isn't here—he's still in custody—and
there's no sign of Sierra, either. Or Cole, or any of that crew.
I stop in the dead center of the cafeteria and look
around. Some heads turn in my direction, and maybe half a
dozen people lean over and whisper to their friends. One
guy looks at me and shakes his head in disgust, then goes
back to eating. A group of cheerleaders breaks out in a
chorus of giggles that I'm pretty sure is because of me. But
for the most part, nothing happens.
A hush does not fall over the crowd.
No one yells “faggot,” or “dyke,” or throws food.
On the other hand, no one shouts my name in triumph,
either. There is no slow golf clap building up to a standing
ovation.
It's just a bunch of people eating lunch.
I laugh out loud, and Bec turns to look at me, her face
drawn with concern.
“You all right?” she asks.
“Yeah,” I say. “I was just thinking—if I have to eat one
more dry-ass cafeteria burrito, I might have a complete
nervous breakdown.”
Bec nods. “So, On the Vedge?”
“Definitely.”
And before I know it, we're out of the cafeteria and
scrambling down the slope to the parking lot.
“I need meat,” Solo says. “Let's go to the Reagan Years.”
“You want me to fall into a dairy-induced coma?” I reply.
“You like their fries.”
“A teen of indeterminate gender cannot live by fries
alone.”
“Wait,” Solo says. “So we can joke about this now?”
I shake my head. “I can joke about this. You must remain
neutral and respectful at all times.”
Bec snorts.
“That's totally unfair,” Solo says. “You're a rich white kid,
why can't I make fun of you?”
“I don't make the rules, Solo. I just represent.” I pound
my chest with a fist.
Solo laughs. “So be it.”
CHAPTER 35
DAD COMES HOME EARLY, citing a long day of
campaigning ahead of him tomorrow—he looks absolutely
beat. My mom, who took the day off to go event-hopping
with him, looks pretty wiped out herself. I know she's tired
when she announces that Shelly will be dropping off Thai
food at six.
Dinner conversation is light, and I only pick at my
vegetable pad see ew; I'm too amped up to eat. Finally, I
push the Styrofoam container away.
“Mom, Dad?” They look up at me. I take a deep breath.
“There's something I want to do. But, it's kind of big, and I
don't want to do it unless you're okay with it.”
They exchange interested looks.
“All right,” Dad says. “Tell us.”
So I do. I tell them about Mike/Michelle's invitation to
speak on the panel at Trans Health Con tomorrow, and how
Casey's coming out today inspired me to do more than just
blog about what I've been through.
When I'm done, Dad loosens his tie and clears his throat.
“Riley,” he says, “I don't know about this. You'd be
obliterating your privacy.”
I meet his eye. “Dad, I've spent the last week holed up in
my room, avoiding the TV, hardly even going on the
internet. We've disconnected our home phone. Reporters
stake out the house. You have to sneak out through the side
yard and get picked up in a rental car. Our ‘privacy' is sort of
over.” He exchanges a dark look with my mom. I continue
before they can interrupt. “You always say the best leaders
figure out how to turn a bad situation to their advantage.
When life gives you gators, you make Gatorade.
Remember?”
I watch his face for some sign—and after a moment, I'd
swear he's trying to suppress a smile. I think I may have
won him over. My mom's face, on the other hand, is tight
with concern, so I turn my attention to her. “I feel like if I can
talk about it—about coming out, and my situation . . .
maybe it will help me process all of this. And give it a
positive meaning, instead of just being a sad story about
something that happened to me.”
Mom lets out a long sigh, reaches up like she's going to
chew her cuticle, then folds her hands.
I go on. “I think about what Bec will say if I just hide from
all this. And my friends at the Q. Andie Gingham. Casey
Reese. The fifty thousand people who follow my blog.”
Dad says, “I know you feel accountable to your
community. And that's admirable. But you don't owe it to
them. You don't owe it to anyone.”
I look up at him. “I owe it to me.”
Finally, Mom speaks, her voice heavy with worry. “It's just
so soon.”
I shake my head. “The timing is right. The election, the
assault, it's all still in the news. I have this little window of
time when I can talk into a big microphone. This is my
chance to speak up for other people like me.”
Mom looks at me. Her eyes are getting moist. Dad puts
his hand on hers and says, “Sharon? What do you think?”
She shakes her head. “You are your father's child, Riley.”
On Saturday morning—the day of the conference—I stand in
front of my closet, staring at the palette of faded black and
blue clothes hanging inside. The only brightly colored thing
in here is a yellow T-shirt I've never worn, crammed way in
the back. For the first time, I understand what my mother
has been complaining about since I was a kid: my wardrobe
has all the color of a week-old bruise.
Mom is sitting on the couch in the living room reading
one of her guilty pleasures, a bodice-ripper romance novel.
When I enter the room, she looks up from her book,
embarrassed like a kid caught watching an R-rated movie.
“You startled me,” she says, closing her book. “Is
everything okay?”
“Yeah,” I say. “Everything's good. I was just wondering . .
. I was wondering if you'd take me shopping?”
I've never seen my mother get into a car so quickly in my
life.
When we walk out of Nordstrom two hours later, both of us
are smiling like we've won the lottery. The outfit I end up
with is, as my mother put it, very me: a simple white dress
shirt with a blue tie—darker than my dad's cornflower blue,
but not by much. Below that, I chose a dark green tartan
fabric with thin blue lines running through the plaid. It hangs
just above the knee and lands somewhere in the middle of
the skirt/kilt continuum. On my feet: a brand-new pair of
blue sixteen-hole Doc Martens. The outfit is part punk rock,
part Catholic schoolgirl, part prep-school lacrosse guy.
I love it. I absolutely adore it. I want to marry it and make
babies with it.
Solo and Bec are late picking me up for the conference.
“I couldn't find Bullet Head,” Solo says.
“You've been there,” Bec says. “And it's Bullet Hole.”
Solo throws up his hands. “Well, that's why. I was looking
for a sign with a head on it.”
“The sign does have a head on it, you nincompoop. A
head with a bullet hole in it.”
Solo frowns. “Did you just use the word ‘nincompoop'?”
“I'm reviving the Dickensian insult movement.”
“There is no Dickensian insult movement.”
“Then I'm starting one.”
“Hey, guys,” I say, “I hate to interrupt. But, Bec, could
you please let me ride shotgun? I don't want to puke in the
Solo-mobile.” My stomach is already churning at the
thought of walking into the conference. And, truth be told,
the tingling from this morning hasn't really gone away. On
top of that, despite my upped dosage, the buzzing in the
back of my head keeps getting louder. In short: I'm a wreck.
Solo reaches across Bec's lap to unlock her door. He fixes
her with a triumphant glare. “Be gone, thou scruffy-looking
nerf herder.”
Bec gives him a sour look. “That's not even . . . who are
you?” Carefully, she opens the battered car door.
She's evened out her choppy hair into a smooth buzz cut
that actually looks good on her. She's got her jean jacket on
over a T-shirt that features a glittery, prancing unicorn; I'm
not sure if she's wearing it out of a sense of irony, or if it's
her attempt to balance out her new hairdo with something
more feminine.
When she gets out of the car, she glances at me, and
then does a double take.
“Wow,” she says. “You look . . . extremely hot.”
I blush with the fire of a thousand suns.
The parking lot is packed when we arrive a few minutes past
two o'clock, so Solo drops us off in front and says he'll meet
us inside. Bec and I turn our faces down against the strong
autumn wind and walk side by side toward the entrance.
The convention center is a massive, looming glass
structure the size of a football stadium. The closer we get to
the front doors, the shallower my breath becomes; I can't
stop imagining all the people inside. All those eyes looking
at me. The tingling in my hands spreads up my arms. I take
deep Doctor Ann breaths—I have to fight this. I need to be
at my best today. It's important.
But the breaths don't help. The tingling radiates through
my body, and tunnel vision starts to close in; I'm losing
control. My feet go numb. I catch my toe on a seam in the
concrete and stumble.
Bec catches me before I can fall, grabbing me by the
shoulders with surprising strength, holding me steady. She
leads me toward a ring of trees off to one side; there's a
green metal bench in the center. My heart is pounding in my
chest, my vision blurred.
Bec doesn't ask if I'm okay. She doesn't tell me there's
nothing to be afraid of. She just guides me to the bench,
puts a hand on my back, and says, “Breathe.” She takes my
hands in hers and looks into my eyes, but I can't seem to
focus on her. The wind picks up and parts the canopy of
leaves overhead. For a split second, the sun peeks through,
flashing in my eyes, bright and angry. Like a camera flash.
Like a sodium lamp.
Like the headlight of a truck.
And all at once I'm there again. I feel their hands holding
me down, feel the pressure against my back.
Somewhere in the distance, Bec's voice says, “Stay with
me.”
But I can't. I can't stay. I have to go. I withdraw. My face
is numb. My face is numb. The world shrinks to a pinprick.
Far away, I feel Bec grip my shoulders. She pulls me into
her arms.
I feel her hands on my back, holding me, and I start to
thrash, but she only hugs me tighter. I struggle for a
moment—but when I know she isn't going to let go, I stop. I
feel my body go slack.
She holds me. Not forcing; containing. Stilling.
My heartbeat slows. My breathing becomes more even.
My face is pressed against Bec's shoulder. It's wet.
After a long time, she pulls away and looks at me. Her
face slowly comes into focus: elfin ears, high cheekbones,
strong nose—and those eyes. Those lightsaber-blue eyes.
She takes my hand again, brushes the tips of my fingers
with her own.
The tingling is gone.
I feel a sensation in my stomach—not the uncomfortable
twisting from before, but the fluttering of butterfly wings.
Bec's face is strong, set. There's concern in her eyes, but no
panic. The butterflies in my stomach rise. I lean closer. My
eyes drift down to her mouth, her thin lips set in a straight
line. The metal ring in her lower lip twitches.
“Riley, it's too soon.”
“It's okay,” I whisper.
And I lean in.
I'm only an inch away when she stops me with a hand on
my chest, and I feel my heart dive into my stomach. Bec
sees the expression on my face and shakes her head.
“It's not like that,” she says.
Shame and confusion well up inside me.
“I'm not stopping you because I don't want us to kiss,”
she says.
I want to reply, but no words come.
“I'm stopping you because I want it to be like this.”
She takes my hand, places it over her heart. Hers is
beating fast too, and I can feel her breath quicken at my
touch. And then she smiles that crooked half smile, grips my
shirt in her fist, and pulls me into a kiss.
Her lips are firm. The metal of her lip ring feels cold and
solid against my skin. She puts her hand on the side of my
face, brushing her thumb across my cheek. A swirling
dizziness replaces the tingling in my head, then spreads
through the rest of me. And then, it's as if a bank of stadium
lights comes on behind my eyelids—but it's a good
brightness. A warm brightness. And I don't flinch from it.
There's a soft sound, and our lips come apart. Bec leans
her forehead against mine.
“I've been wanting to do that for a long time,” she says.
I keep my eyes closed. I don't want that brightness to go
away. “I thought you liked the scruffy lumberjack type. Like
your drummer.”
Bec laughs. “Don't be stupid. I don't have a type. I have
standards.”
I open my eyes and look into hers. “And I meet them?”
“You are them.”
I start to reply, but she puts a finger to my lips. “We can
talk about all this later. Right now, your public awaits.”
CHAPTER 36
MIKE/MICHELLE AND KANADA ARE WAITING for us
outside the conference hall. Kanada actually lifts me off my
feet when she embraces me, and Mike/Michelle follows with
a more subdued hug. Solo and Bec wish me good luck, then
head in to find seats.
When the door has closed behind them, Mike/Michelle
turns to me, her expression serious. “Riley, listen, there's—”
“Don't worry about me,” I interrupt. “I'm okay. I'm ready.”
“I don't doubt you for a moment,” she says. “But you
need to know that the room is packed with reporters and
photographers.”
“I know,” I say, “I invited them.”
Mike/Michelle frowns. For a moment, I think she's going
to be angry—but then she says, “You couldn't possibly have
called every news station in the greater Los Angeles area all
by yourself.”
I shrug. “Didn't have to. I figured they'd all be checking
my blog—so I just posted the time and the address.”
Kanada throws back her head and laughs. “My, my,” she
says. “Somebody just out-Mike/Michelled Mike/Michelle.”
I smile. “Sorry for the surprise.”
“Don't apologize,” Mike/Michelle says. “We'll take all the
attention we can get.” Her smile falters, and she grips my
arm gently. “I'll do my best to keep it civilized in there. But
once the Q and A starts, I won't be able to control them.”
I remember the storm of reporters outside the hotel last
week—was it only last week? The cameras flashing, the din
of raised voices, the press of arms and elbows, the
microphones being thrust at me as I tried to push my way
through. I feel my heart beat in my throat again.
I look from Kanada to Mike/Michelle, and then I walk to
the doors and push them open.
I'm staring into the biggest conference hall I've ever seen
in my life. You could park a 747 in here—and yet, a
claustrophobic dread settles in on me as five hundred
people turn in their seats like attendees at a celebrity
wedding. There's a pause as reporters and conference-goers
alike try to identify me. Finally, someone yells, “Alix!”
And then the flashes start going off.
Kanada takes me by one arm, Mike/Michelle by the other.
Reporters call out questions as we make our way down the
aisle—but there are legitimate attendees in the crowd too,
shouting encouragement. I spot one conference-goer with
dyed-green hair holding up a sign that reads “We Love You,
Alix!” Another throws a lei of plastic flowers in my direction
as I walk past.
The whole gang from the Q is here—even Morgan, who's
still wearing that same green flight jacket. I spot Casey
Reese, too, standing just across the aisle. He makes a point
of gesturing to his hair, which he's spiked into a fauxhawk,
and gives me two thumbs up; I smile at him.
Bec and Solo are seated about five rows from the front.
Bec waves, but Solo looks concerned, half standing as
though he might plunge into the aisle and start clearing the
crowd—but Bec pulls him back into his seat.
There's a stage at the front of the room with a long
banquet table and a lectern packed with microphones. I take
my place between the two panelists already seated at the
table—a tall man in a loud green shirt and an older woman
with a wispy gray ponytail. Kanada finds a seat in the front
row, and Mike/Michelle takes the podium.
“Good afternoon, everyone, and welcome to ‘Building
LGBTQ Communities Online.' Today we're going to explore
—” But she's interrupted as the first reporters sound off.
“Riley, how do you think your coming-out will affect your
father's campaign?”
“Do you feel responsible for the—”
Mike/Michelle pounds a fist on the lectern and it booms
through the sound system with a squeal of feedback. “Folks,
this is a panel, not a press conference. I would ask you to
kindly hold your questions until the end.”
As the panel goes on, I struggle to keep my breathing under
control. Every time a flash goes off, I jump a little in my
chair; I wish I'd thought to ask Doctor Ann for an extra
Xanax. Mike/Michelle mediates, and I'm grateful that she
poses most of the questions to the other two panelists: The
man in the neon shirt is a professional lobbyist, and the
older woman runs the biggest gay and lesbian newsletter in
the United States. I field a few of the questions, trying to
answer as best as I can, but I feel like a child next to these
two older, more qualified experts. But, eventually, my turn
comes.
“How did you approach building your own online
community?” Mike/Michelle asks, and looks at me as if I
have some kind of expertise to offer.
“Um, it sort of happened by accident,” I say. I'm totally
serious, but it gets a big laugh, reminding me vaguely of my
“gymnastics scholarship” moment at Dad's fund-raiser. “My
doctor told me to start an anonymous blog as part of
therapy. And then the Andie Gingham story broke, so mostly
it was out of my hands. I guess I just tried to be real, and
give the advice I'd want someone to give me.” Mike/Michelle
gives me a tender smile, and then the other two panelists
cut in with a bunch of jargon about SEO and other things I
don't really understand.
With about ten minutes left—I'm watching the clock on
my phone, counting down the minutes—Mike/Michelle steers
the conversation off-topic. She looks down at her cards,
seems to consider, and then sets them aside and looks at
me.
“What would you say to someone who claims that
nonbinary gender identities aren't real? What do you think
of people who say: man or woman, that's all there is, pick
one?”
I glance into the audience. A few flashes go off. “I don't
know,” I say. “People are complicated. And messy. Seems
too convenient that we'd all fit inside some multiple-choice
question.”
Finally, Mike/Michelle invites us to make our closing
statements. The newsletter woman goes first, then the
lobbyist in the neon shirt—and then it's my turn. Hands
shaking, I unfold a printout of something I wrote late last
night. I shouldn't be so nervous—it's basically a blog post—
but the thought of reading it out loud makes my face tingle.
As I read, I avoid making eye contact, and I stumble over my
words quite a bit—but I think it comes off okay.
“I wish I had some all-encompassing wisdom to give you.
Or to give myself. You know? Because I've been through a
lot, and it hurts. I want everything I've been through to
make sense. I want the pain to have meaning. I want it to
change something.” I look out into the crowd and find Bec.
Her eyes are wide and serious, and she never takes them off
me. “But the truth is, feelings don't change anything. To
change something, you have to say things out loud. Do
things. Take chances. Take a stand.” I pause, and when I
clear my throat, it echoes through the PA. “So, this is the
stand I'm taking: I'm not going to hide anymore.”
The room is quiet for a second, and then the crowd starts
to applaud. I have to wipe at my eyes with my sleeve.
When Mike/Michelle finally opens the panel to questions
from the audience, the room explodes in cacophony. The
media, who have managed to keep their silence for the last
thirty minutes, all start yelling questions at once.
Mike/Michelle pounds on the lectern like a courtroom judge,
but they ignore her.
In the midst of all the shouting, one of the doors in the
back of the hall opens partway, and a man slips in. He's tall,
and wears a blue baseball cap over dark aviator sunglasses.
Avoiding the center aisle, he makes his way down the side
of the big room and finds an empty seat at the end of the
sixth or seventh row. I look closer and see that there's gold
writing on his blue cap; it's the University of Notre Dame
logo.
It's my dad.
My heart swells in my chest, and I can't stop tears from
leaking down the sides of my face. I wipe them away quickly
and smile at him. He nods in reply, then he sinks down in his
chair to disguise his height.
I glance around to see if anyone else has noticed his
arrival, but if they have, they don't appear to recognize him.
Mike/Michelle walks over to my chair and leans down to talk
in my ear.
“We should just end it now and escort you out of here.
The Q and A is a joke. They're not going to stop yelling.”
I shake my head. “Let me talk to them.”
To my surprise, Mike/Michelle nods and steps aside. I
stand up and make my way to the podium.
At first, the noise swells, and a fireworks show of flashes
pops across my vision. I hold up my hand to shield my eyes.
“Hey,” I say into the cluster of microphones. “Hey, can
everybody quiet down?”
Slowly, the din of shouting ebbs. I glance at
Mike/Michelle, and she gestures for me to go on. I turn and
look out at the hundreds of faces gathered in the hangarsized
hall. Here and there, a flash goes off. I grip the sides of
the lectern. I look down at Morgan and the group of Q
members seated at the front of the house. My eyes move to
Solo's massive presence a few chairs behind. To Bec, smiling
that half-smirk smile, her blue eyes burning up at me from
the fifth row. I look at my father, hunched down in his chair,
watching me intently. He lifts his hand so that it's level with
his chest, then extends his pinkie and index fingers, making
rock 'n' roll devil horns. I smile at him. Then I take a long,
deep Doctor Ann breath, and close my eyes.
To my surprise, it's not a black void that appears behind
my eyelids, but a familiar, comforting light. I picture a
blackboard suspended in it. I dip my brush into the
surrounding light and begin to paint, erasing the cold
blackness bit by bit, replacing it with warm, bright light. I
get all the way to the far edge, until there's only a sliver of
black remaining—
And I reach up with my brush and paint it white.
