An Infinite Amount of Days Until
My Inevitable Reunion with Nikki
I don't have to look up to know Mom is
making another surprise visit. Her toenails
are always pink during the summer months,
and I recognize the flower design
imprinted on her leather sandals; it's what
Mompurchased the last time she signed me
out of the bad place and took me to the
mall.
Once again, Mother has found me in my
bathrobe, exercising unattended in the
courtyard, and I smile because I know she
will yell at Dr. Timbers, asking him why I
need to be locked up if  only going to
be left alone all day.
“Just how many push-ups are you going
to do, Pat?” Mom says when I start a
second set of one hundred without
speaking to her.
“Nikki—likes—a—man—with—a—
developed—upper—body,” I say, spitting
out one word per push-up, tasting the salty
sweat lines that are running into my mouth.
The August haze is thick, perfect for
burning fat.
Mom just watches for a minute or so,
and then she shocks me.
Her voice sort of quivers as she says,
“Do you want to come home with me
today?”
I stop doing push-ups, turn my face up
toward Mother's, squint through the white
noontime sun—and I can immediately tell
she is serious, because she looks worried,
as if she is making a mistake, and that's
how Mom looks when she means
something she has said and isn't just
talking like she always does for hours on
end whenever she's not upset or afraid.
“As long as you promise not to go
looking for Nikki again,” she adds, “you
can finally come home and live with me
and your father until we find you a job and
get you set up in an apartment.”
I resume my push-up routine, keeping my
eyes riveted to the shiny black ant scaling a
blade of grass directly below my nose, but
my peripheral vision catches the sweat
beads leaping from my face to the ground
below.
“Pat, just say you'll come home with
me, and I'll cook for you and you can visit
with your old friends and start to get on
with your life finally. Please. I need you to
want this. If only for me, Pat. Please.”
Double-time push-ups, my pecs ripping,
growing—pain, heat, sweat, change.
I don't want to stay in the bad place,
where no one believes in silver linings or
love or happy endings, and where
everyone tells me Nikki will not like my
new body, nor will she even want to see
me when apart time is over. But I am also
afraid the people from my old life will not
be as enthusiastic as I amnow trying to be.
Even still, I need to get away from the
depressing doctors and the ugly nurses—with their endless pills in paper cups—if I
amever going to get my thoughts straight,
and since Mom will be much easier to
trick than medical professionals, I jump up,
find my feet, and say, “I'll come live with
you just until apart time is over.”
While Mom is signing legal papers, I
take one last shower in my room and then
fill my duffel bag with clothes and my
framed picture of Nikki. I say goodbye to
my roommate, Jackie, who just stares at me
from his bed like he always does, drool
running down off his chin like clear honey.
Poor Jackie, with his random tufts of hair,
oddly shaped head, and flabby body. What
woman would ever love him?
He blinks at me. I take this for goodbye
and good luck, so I blink back with both
eyes—meaning double good luck to you,
Jackie, which I figure he understands,
since he grunts and bangs his shoulder
against his ear like he does whenever he
gets what you are trying to tell him.
My other friends are in music relaxation
class, which I do not attend, because
smooth jazz makes me angry sometimes.
Thinking maybe I should say goodbye to
the men who had my back while I was
locked up, I look into the music-roomwindow and see my boys sitting Indian
style on purple yoga mats, their elbows
resting on their knees, their palms pressed
together in front of their faces, and their
eyes closed. Luckily, the glass of the
window blocks the smooth jazz fromentering my ears. My friends look really
relaxed—at peace—so I decide not to
interrupt their session. I hate goodbyes.
In his white coat, Dr. Timbers is waiting
for me when I meet my mother in the lobby,
where three palm trees lurk among the
couches and lounge chairs, as if the bad
place were in Orlando and not Baltimore.
“Enjoy your life,” he says to me—wearing
that sober look of his—and shakes my
hand.
“Just as soon as apart time ends,” I say,
and his face falls as if I said I was going to
kill his wife, Natalie, and their three
blond-haired daughters—Kristen, Jenny,
and Becky—because that's just how much
he does not believe in silver linings,
making it his business to preach apathy and
negativity and pessimismunceasingly.
But I make sure he understands that he
has failed to infect me with his depressing
life philosophies—and that I will be
looking forward to the end of apart time. I
say, “Picture me rollin'” to Dr. Timbers,
which is exactly what Danny—my only
black friend in the bad place—told me he
was going to say to Dr. Timbers when
Danny got out. I sort of feel bad about
stealing Danny's exit line, but it works; I
know because Dr. Timbers squints as if I
had punched himin the gut.
As my mother drives me out of
Maryland and through Delaware, past all
those fast-food places and strip malls, she
explains that Dr. Timbers did not want to
let me out of the bad place, but with the
help of a few lawyers and her girlfriend's
therapist—the man who will be my new
therapist—she waged a legal battle and
managed to convince some judge that she
could care for me at home, so I thank her.
On the Delaware Memorial Bridge, she
looks over at me and asks if I want to get
better, saying, “You do want to get better,
Pat. Right?”
I nod. I say, “I do.”
And then we are back in New Jersey,
flying up 295.
As we drive down Haddon Avenue into
the heart of Collingswood—my hometown
—I see that the main drag looks different.
So many new boutique stores, new
expensive-looking restaurants, and welldressed strangers walking the sidewalks
that I wonder if this is really my hometown
at all. I start to feel anxious, breathing
heavily like I sometimes do.
Mom asks me what's wrong, and when I
tell her, she again promises that my new
therapist, Dr. Patel, will have me feeling
normal in no time.
When we arrive home, I immediately go
down into the basement, and it's like
Christmas. I find the weight bench my
mother had promised me so many times,
along with the rack of weights, the
stationary bike, dumbbells, and the
Stomach Master 6000, which I had seen on
late-night television and coveted for
however long I was in the bad place.
“Thank you, thank you, thank you!” I tell
Mom, and give her a huge hug, picking her
up off the ground and spinning her around
once.
When I put her down, she smiles and
says, “Welcome home, Pat.”
Eagerly I go to work, alternating
between sets of bench presses, curls,
machine sit-ups on the Stomach Master
6000, leg lifts, squats, hours on the bike,
hydration sessions (I try to drink four
gallons of water every day, doing endless
shots of H2O from a shot glass for
intensive hydration), and then there is my
writing, which is mostly daily memoirs
like this one, so that Nikki will be able to
read about my life and know exactly what
I've been up to since apart time began.
(My memory started to slip in the bad
place because of the drugs, so I began
writing down everything that happens to
me, keeping track of what I will need to
tell Nikki when apart time concludes, to
catch her up on my life. But the doctors in
the bad place confiscated everything I
wrote before I came home, so I had to start
over.)
When I finally come out of the basement,
I notice that all the pictures of Nikki and
me have been removed from the walls and
the mantel over the fireplace.
I ask my mother where these pictures
went. She tells me our house was
burglarized a few weeks before I came
home and the pictures were stolen. I ask
why a burglar would want pictures of
Nikki and me, and my mother says she puts
all of her pictures in very expensive
frames. “Why didn't the burglar steal the
rest of the family pictures?” I ask. Momsays the burglar stole all the expensive
frames, but she had the negatives for the
family portraits and had them replaced.
“Why didn't you replace the pictures of
Nikki and me?” I ask. Mom says she did
not have the negatives for the pictures of
Nikki and me, especially because Nikki's
parents had paid for the wedding pictures
and had only given my mother copies of the
photos she liked. Nikki had given Mom the
other non-wedding pictures of us, and
well, we aren't in touch with Nikki or her
family right now because it's apart time.
I tell my mother that if that burglar
comes back, I'll break his kneecaps and
beat him within an inch of his life, and she
says, “I believe you would.”
My father and I do not talk even once
during the first week I am home, which is
not all that surprising, as he is always
working—he's the district manager for all
the Big Foods in South Jersey. When
Dad's not at work, he's in his study,
reading historical fiction with the door
shut, mostly novels about the Civil War.
Mom says he needs time to get used to my
living at home again, which I am happy to
give him, especially since I am sort of
afraid to talk with Dad anyway. I
remember him yelling at me the only time
he ever visited me in the bad place, and he
said some pretty awful things about Nikki
and silver linings in general. I see Dad in
the hallways of our house, of course, but he
doesn't look at me when we pass.
Nikki likes to read, and since she
always wanted me to read literary books, I
start, mainly so I will be able to
participate in the dinner conversations I
had remained silent through in the past—those conversations with Nikki's literary
friends, all English teachers who think  an illiterate buffoon, which is actually a
name Nikki's friend calls me whenever I
tease him about being such a tiny man. “At
least  not an illiterate buffoon,” Phillip
says to me, and Nikki laughs so hard.
My mom has a library card, and she
checks out books for me now that I amhome and allowed to read whatever I want
without clearing the material with Dr.
Timbers, who, incidentally, is a fascist
when it comes to book banning. I start with
The Great Gatsby, which I finish in just
three nights.
The best part is the introductory essay,
which states that the novel is mostly about
time and how you can never buy it back,
which is exactly how I feel regarding my
body and exercise—but then again, I also
feel as if I have an infinite amount of days
until my inevitable reunion with Nikki.
When I read the actual story—how
Gatsby loves Daisy so much but can't ever
be with her no matter how hard he tries—I
feel like ripping the book in half and
calling up Fitzgerald and telling him his
book is all wrong, even though I know
Fitzgerald is probably deceased.
Especially when Gatsby is shot dead in his
swimming pool the first time he goes for a
swimall summer, Daisy doesn't even go to
his funeral, Nick and Jordan part ways,
and Daisy ends up sticking with racist
Tom, whose need for sex basically
murders an innocent woman, you can tell
Fitzgerald never took the time to look up at
clouds during sunset, because there's no
silver lining at the end of that book, let me
tell you.
I do see why Nikki likes the novel, as
it's written so well. But her liking it makes
me worry now that Nikki doesn't really
believe in silver linings, because she says
The Great Gatsby is the greatest novel
ever written by an American, and yet it
ends so sadly. One thing's for sure, Nikki
is going to be very proud of me when I tell
her I finally read her favorite book.
Here's another surprise:  going to
read all the novels on her American
literature class syllabus, just to make her
proud, to let her know that I am really
interested in what she loves and I ammaking a real effort to salvage our
marriage, especially since I will now be
able to converse with her swanky literary
friends, saying things like, “ thirty. 
five years too old to lie to myself and call
it honor,” which Nick says toward the end
of Fitzgerald's famous novel, but the line
works for me too, because I am also thirty,
so when I say it, I will sound really smart.
We will probably be chatting over dinner,
and the reference will make Nikki smile
and laugh because she will be so surprised
that I have actually read The Great
Gatsby. That's part of my plan, anyway, to
deliver that line real suave, when she least
expects me to “drop knowledge”—to use
another one of my black friend Danny's
lines.
God, I can't wait.
He Does Not Preach Pessimism
My workout is interrupted midday, when
Mom descends the basement stairs and
says I have an appointment with Dr. Patel.
I ask if I can go later that night, after I have
completed my daily weights routine, but
Mom says I'll have to go back to the bad
place in Baltimore if I do not keep my
appointments with Dr. Patel, and she even
references the court ruling, telling me I can
read the paperwork if I don't believe her.
So I shower, and then Mom drives me to
Dr. Patel's office, which is the first floor
of a big house in Voorhees, just off
Haddonfield—Berlin Road.
When we arrive, I take a seat in the
waiting room as Mom fills out some more
paperwork. By now, ten trees must have
been cut down just to document my mental
health, which Nikki will hate hearing, as
she is an avid environmentalist who gave
me at least one tree in the rain forest every
Christmas—which was really only a piece
of paper stating I owned the tree—and I do
feel bad now for making fun of those gifts
and won't ever poke fun at the diminishing
rain forest in the future when Nikki comes
back.
As I sit there flipping through a Sports
Illustrated, listening to the easy-listening
station Dr. Patel pumps into his waiting
room, suddenly  hearing sexy
synthesizer chords, faint highhat taps, the
kick drum thumping out an erotic heartbeat,
the twinkling of fairy dust, and then the evil
bright soprano saxophone. You know the
title: “Songbird.” And  out of my seat,
screaming, kicking chairs, flipping the
coffee table, picking up piles of magazines
and throwing them against the wall,
yelling, “It's not fair! I won't tolerate any
tricks!  not an emotional lab rat!”
And then a small Indian man—maybe
only five feet tall, wearing a cable-knit
sweater in August, suit pants, and shiny
white tennis shoes—is calmly asking me
what's wrong.
“Turn off that music!” I yell. “Shut it off!
Right now!”
The tiny man is Dr. Patel, I realize,
because he tells his secretary to turn off the
music, and when she obeys, Kenny G is out
of my head and I stop yelling.
I cover my face with my hands so no one
will see me crying, and after a minute or
so, my mother begins rubbing my back.
So much silence—and then Dr. Patel
asks me into his office. I follow himreluctantly as Mom helps the secretary
clean up the mess I made.
His office is pleasantly strange.
Two leather recliners face each other,
and spider-looking plants—long vines full
of white-and-green leaves—hang down
from the ceiling to frame the bay window
that overlooks a stone birdbath and a
garden of colorful flowers. But there is
absolutely nothing else in the room except
a box of tissues on the short length of floor
between the recliners. The floor is a shiny
yellow hardwood, and the ceiling and
walls are painted to look like the sky—real-looking clouds float all around the
office, which I take as a good omen, since I
love clouds. A single light occupies the
center of the ceiling, like a glowing
upside-down vanilla-icing cake, but the
ceiling around the light is painted to look
like the sun. Friendly rays shoot out fromthe center.
I have to admit I feel calm as soon as I
enter Dr. Patel's office and do not really
mind anymore that I heard the Kenny G
song.
Dr. Patel asks me which recliner I want
to relax in. I pick the black over the brown
and immediately regret my decision,
thinking that choosing black makes me
seem more depressed than if I had chosen
brown, and really,  not depressed at all.
When Dr. Patel sits down, he pulls the
lever on the side of his chair, which makes
the footrest rise. He leans back and laces
his fingers behind his tiny head, as if he
were about to watch a ball game.
“Relax,” he says. “And no Dr. Patel.
Call me Cliff. I like to keep sessions
informal. Friendly, right?”
He seems nice enough, so I pull my
lever, lean back, and try to relax.
“So,” he says. “The Kenny G song really
got to you. I can't say  a fan either, but
…”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
When I open my eyes, he says, “You
want to talk about Kenny G?”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
“Okay. Want to tell me about Nikki?”
“Why do you want to know about
Nikki?” I say, too defensively, I admit.
“If I am going to help you, Pat, I need to
know you, right? Your mother tells me you
wish to be reunited with Nikki, that this is
your biggest life goal—so I figure we best
start there.”
I begin to feel better because he does not
say a reunion is out of the question, which
seems to imply that Dr. Patel feels as
though reconciling with my wife is still
possible.
“Nikki? She's great,” I say, and then
smile, feeling the warmth that fills my
chest whenever I say her name, whenever I
see her face in my mind. “She's the best
thing that ever happened to me. I love her
more than life itself. And I just can't wait
until apart time is over.”
“Apart time?”
“Yeah. Apart time.”
“What is apart time?”
“A few months ago I agreed to give
Nikki some space, and she agreed to come
back to me when she felt like she had
worked out her own issues enough so we
could be together again. So we are sort of
separated, but only temporarily.”
“Why did you separate?”
“Mostly because I didn't appreciate her
and was a workaholic—chairing the
Jefferson High School History Department
and coaching three sports. I was never
home, and she got lonely. Also I sort of let
my appearance go, to the point where I
was maybe ten to seventy pounds
overweight, but  working on all that and
am now more than willing to go into
couples counseling like she wanted me to,
because  a changed man.”
“Did you set a date?”
“A date?”
“For the end of apart time.”
“No.”
“So apart time is something that will go
on indefinitely?”
“Theoretically, I guess—yes. Especially
since  not allowed to contact Nikki or
her family.”
“Why's that?”
“Umm … I don't know, really. I mean—
I love my in-laws as much as I love Nikki.
But it doesn't matter, because  thinking
that Nikki will be back sooner than later,
and then she'll straighten everything out
with her parents.”
“On what do you base your thinking?”
he asks, but nicely, with a friendly smile
on his face.
“I believe in happy endings,” I tell him.
“And it feels like this movie has gone on
for the right amount of time.”
“Movie?” Dr. Patel says, and I think he
would look exactly like Gandhi if he had
those wire-rim glasses and a shaved head,
which is weird, especially since we are in
leather recliners in such a bright, happy
roomand well, Gandhi is dead, right?
“Yeah,” I say. “Haven't you ever
noticed that life is like a series of
movies?”
“No. Tell me.”
“Well, you have adventures. All start
out with troubles, but then you admit your
problems and become a better person by
working really hard, which is what
fertilizes the happy ending and allows it to
bloom—just like the end of all the Rocky
films, Rudy, The Karate Kid, the Star
Wars and Indiana Jones trilogies, and The
Goonies, which are my favorite films,
even though I have sworn off movies until
Nikki returns, because now my own life is
the movie I will watch, and well, it's
always on. Plus I know it's almost time for
the happy ending, when Nikki will come
back, because I have improved myself so
very much through physical fitness and
medication and therapy.”
“Oh, I see.” Dr. Patel smiles. “I like
happy endings too, Pat.”
“So you agree with me. You think my
wife will come back soon?”
“Time will tell,” Dr. Patel says, and I
know right then that Cliff and I are going to
get along, because he does not preach
pessimism like Dr. Timbers and the staff at
the bad place; Cliff doesn't say I need to
face what he thinks is my reality.
“It's funny, because all the other
therapists I've seen said that Nikki
wouldn't be back. Even after I told themabout the life improvements I have been
making, how I am bettering myself, they
still were always ‘hating on me,' which is
an expression I learned from my black
friend Danny.”
“People can be cruel,” he says with a
sympathetic look that makes me trust himeven more. And right then I realize that he
is not writing down all my words in a file,
which I really appreciate, let me tell you.
I tell him I like the room, and we talk
about my love of clouds and how most
people lose the ability to see silver linings
even though they are always there above us
almost every day.
I ask him questions about his family, just
to be nice, and it turns out he has a
daughter whose high school field hockey
team is ranked second in South Jersey.
Also he has a son in elementary school
who wants to be a ventriloquist and even
practices nightly with a wooden dummy
named Grover Cleveland, who,
incidentally, was also the only U.S.
president to serve two terms that were not
back-to-back. I don't really get why Cliff's
son named his wooden dummy after our
twenty-second and twenty-fourth president,
although I do not say so. Next, Cliff says he
has a wife named Sonja, who painted the
room so beautifully, which leads to our
discussion about how great women are and
how it's important to treasure your woman
while you have her because if you don't,
you can lose her pretty quickly—as God
really wants us to appreciate our women. I
tell Cliff I hope he never has to experience
apart time, and he says he hopes my apart
time will end soon, which is a pretty nice
thing to say.
Before I leave, Cliff says he will be
changing my medication, which could lead
to some unwanted side effects, and that I
have to report any discomfort or
sleeplessness or anxiety or anything else to
my mother immediately—because it might
take some time for him to find the right
combination of drugs—and I promise him I
will.
On the drive home I tell my mother I
really like Dr. Cliff Patel and am feeling
much more hopeful about my therapy. I
thank her for getting me out of the bad
place, saying Nikki is far more likely to
come to Collingswood than to a mental
institution, and when I say this, Mom starts
to cry, which is so strange. She even pulls
off the road, rests her head against the
steering wheel, and with the engine
running, she cries for a long time—sniffling and trembling and making crying
noises. So I rub her back, like she did for
me in Dr. Patel's office when that certain
song came on, and after ten minutes or so,
she simply stops crying and drives me
home.
To make up for the hour I spent sitting
around with Cliff, I work out until late in
the evening, and when I go to bed, my
father is still in his office with the door
shut, so another day passes without my
talking to Dad. I think it's strange to live in
a house with someone you cannot talk to—especially when that someone is your
father—and the thought makes me a little
sad.
Since Mom has not been to the library
yet, I have nothing to read. So I close my
eyes and think about Nikki until she comes
to be with me in my dreams—like always.
Orange Fire Enters My Skull
Yes, I really do believe in silver linings,
mostly because I've been seeing themalmost every day when I emerge from the
basement, push my head and arms through
a trash bag—so my torso will be wrapped
in plastic and I will sweat more—and then
go running. I always try to coordinate the
ten-mile running portion of my ten-hour
exercise routine with sunset, so I can finish
by running west past the playing fields of
Knight's Park, where, as a kid, I played
baseball and soccer.
As I run through the park, I look up and
see what the day has to offer in the way of
divination.
If clouds are blocking the sun, there will
always be a silver lining that reminds me
to keep on trying, because I know that
while things might seem dark now, my
wife is coming back to me soon. Seeing the
light outline those fluffy puffs of white and
gray is electrifying. (And you can even recreate the effect by holding your hand a
few inches away from a naked lightbulb
and tracing your handprint with your eyes
until you go temporarily blind.) It hurts to
look at the clouds, but it also helps, like
most things that cause pain. So I need to
run, and as my lungs burn and my back
rebels with that stabbing knife feeling and
my leg muscles harden and the half inch of
loose skin around my waist jiggles, I feel
as though my penance for the day is being
done and that maybe God will be pleased
enough to lend me some help, which I think
is why He has been showing me interesting
clouds for the past week.
Since my wife asked for some time
apart, I've lost more than fifty pounds, and
my mother says that soon I'll be at the
weight I was when I played varsity soccer
in high school, which is also the weight I
was when I met Nikki, and  thinking
maybe she was upset by the weight I
gained during the five years we were
married. Won't she be surprised to see me
looking so muscular when apart time is
over!
If there are no clouds at sunset—which
happened yesterday—when I look up
toward the sky, orange fire enters my skull,
blinds me, and that's almost as good,
because it burns too and makes everything
look divine.
When I run, I always pretend I amrunning toward Nikki, and it makes me feel
like I am decreasing the amount of time I
have to wait until I see her again.
The Worst Ending Imaginable
Knowing that Nikki does a big unit on
Hemingway every year, I ask for one of
Hemingway's better novels. “One with a
love story if possible, because I really
need to study love—so I can be a better
husband when Nikki comes back,” I tell
Mom.
When Mom returns from the library, she
says that the librarian claims A Farewell to
Arms is Hemingway's best love story. So I
eagerly crack open the book and can feel
myself getting smarter as I turn the first few
pages.
As I read, I look for quotable lines so I
can “drop knowledge” the next time Nikki
and I are out with her literary friends—so I
can say to that glasses-wearing Phillip,
“Would an illiterate buffoon know this
line?” And then I will drop some
Hemingway, real suave.
But the novel is nothing but a trick.
The whole time, you root for the
narrator to survive the war and then for
him to have a nice life with Catherine
Barkley. He does survive all sorts of
dangers—even getting blown up—and
finally escapes to Switzerland with the
pregnant Catherine, whomhe loves so
much. They live in the mountains for a
time, in love and living a good life.
Hemingway should have ended there,
because that was the silver lining these
people deserved after struggling to survive
the gloomy war.
But no.
Instead he thinks up the worst ending
imaginable: Hemingway has Catherine die
from hemorrhaging after their child is
stillborn. It is the most torturous ending I
have ever experienced and probably will
ever experience in literature, movies, or
even television.
I am crying so hard at the end, partly for
the characters, yes, but also because Nikki
actually teaches this book to children. I
cannot imagine why anyone would want to
expose impressionable teenagers to such a
horrible ending. Why not just tell high
school students that their struggle to
improve themselves is all for nothing?
I have to admit that for the first time
since apart time began, I am mad at Nikki
for teaching such pessimism in her
classroom. I will not be quoting
Hemingway anytime soon, nor will I ever
read another one of his books. And if he
were still alive, I would write him a letter
right now and threaten to strangle him dead
with my bare hands just for being so glum.
No wonder he put a gun to his head, like it
says in the introductory essay.
Got Nothin' but Love for Ya
Dr. Patel's secretary turns off the radio as
soon as she sees me walk into the waiting
room, which makes me laugh because she
tries to do it casually, as if I won't notice.
She looks scared, turning the knob so
gingerly—the way people do things after
they have seen one of my episodes, as if I
amno longer human, but some wild hulking
animal.
After a brief wait, I meet with Cliff for
my second session, like I will every Friday
for the foreseeable future. I pick brown
this time, and we sit in his leather recliners
among the clouds, talking about how much
we like women and “kicking it like we
do,” which is another one of Danny's
sayings.
Cliff asks me if I like my new meds, and
I tell him I do, even though I really have
not noticed any effects at all and have only
taken about half the pills my mother gave
me last week—hiding a few under my
tongue and spitting them into the toilet
when she leaves me alone. He asks me if I
have experienced any unwanted side
effects—shortness of breath, loss of
appetite, drowsiness, suicidal feelings,
homicidal feelings, loss of virility, anxiety,
itchiness, diarrhea—and I tell him I
haven't.
“What about hallucinations?” he says,
and then leans forward a little, squinting.
“Hallucinations?” I ask.
“Hallucinations.”
I shrug, say I don't think I have
hallucinated, and he tells me I would know
if I had.
“Tell your mother if you see anything
bizarre or horrifying,” he says, “but don't
worry, because you probably will not
hallucinate. Only a very small percentage
of people hallucinate while taking this
combination of meds.”
I nod and promise I will report any
hallucinations to my mother, but I do not
really believe I will hallucinate no matter
what type of drugs he gives me, especially
since I know he will not be giving me LSD
or anything like that. I figure weaker
people probably complain about their
drugs, but I am not weak and can control
my mind pretty well.
I am in the basement doing shots of water,
taking my three-minute break between
crunches on the Stomach Master 6000 and
leg lifts on the weight bench, when I smell
the unmistakable buttery flavor of my
mother's crabby snacks and I start to
salivate unmercifully.
Because I love crabby snacks, I leave
the basement, enter the kitchen, and see that
my mother is not only baking crabby
snacks, which are buttered crabmeat and
orange cheese on English muffins, but she
is also making her homemade three-meats
pizza—hamburger, sausage, and chicken—
and those buffalo wings she gets from Big
Foods.
“Why are you cooking crabby snacks?” I
ask hopefully, because I know from past
experience that she only cooks crabby
snacks when we are having company.
Nikki loves crabby snacks and will eat a
whole plate if you set it in front of her, and
then she will complain later on the ride
home, saying she is feeling fat because she
has eaten too much. Back when I was
emotionally abusive, I used to tell her that I
did not want to hear her complaints every
time she ate too much. But the next time
Nikki eats too many crabby snacks, I amgoing to tell her she did not eat too much
and that she looks too skinny anyway; I'll
say she needs to gain a few pounds
because I like my women looking like
women and not like “Ms. Six O'Clock—straight up, straight down,” which is
another termI learned fromDanny.
And I do hope my mother's making
crabby snacks signifies that apart time is
over because Nikki is on her way to my
parents' house, which seems like the best
coming-home surprise my mother could
cook up—and as Mom is always trying to
do nice things for me and my brother, I
mentally prepare myself to be reunited
with Nikki.
My heart pounds at least fifty times
during the few seconds it takes for my
mother to answer my question.
“The Eagles are playing the Steelers
tonight in a preseason exhibition game,”
my mother says, which is weird because
Mom has always hated sports and barely
knows that football season is in the fall, let
alone what teams are playing on a given
day. “Your brother is coming over to
watch the game with you and your father.”
My heart starts beating even faster
because I have not seen my brother since
shortly after apart time began, and like my
father, he said some really awful things
about Nikki the last time we talked.
“Jake is looking forward to seeing you,
and you know how much your father loves
the Eagles. I can't wait to have all three of
my men gathered around the couch again,
just like old times.” My mother smiles at
me so hard I think she is going to break out
in tears again, so I turn around and go back
into the basement to do knuckle push-ups
until my pecs burn and I can no longer feel
my knuckles.
Knowing that I will probably not be
allowed to go for my run later, because we
are having a family night, I put on a trash
bag and run early, passing my high school
friends' homes; passing St. Joseph's,
which is the Catholic church I used to
attend; passing Collingswood High School
(class of ′89 rules!) and the house my
grandparents used to own by the park
before they died.
My old best friend sees me when I run
past his new house on Virginia Avenue.
Ronnie is just getting home from work,
walking from his car to his front door,
when I pass him on the sidewalk. He looks
me in the eyes, and after I have passed, he
yells, “Pat Peoples? Is that you? Pat!
Hey!” I run even harder, because my
brother, Jake, is coming to talk to me; Jake
does not believe in happy endings, and I do
not have the emotional wherewithal to deal
with Ronnie right now, because he never
once came to visit Nikki and me in
Baltimore, although he promised so many
times. Nikki used to call Ronnie
“whipped,” saying that his wife, Veronica,
“keeps Ronnie's social calendar where she
keeps his balls—in her purse.”
Nikki told me that Ronnie would never
visit me in Baltimore, and she was right.
He never visited me in the bad place
either, but he used to write me letters about
how great his daughter, Emily, was and I
guess is, although I have not yet met Emily
to verify the letters.
When I return home, Jake's car is there
—a fancy silver BMW, which sort of
implies that my brother is doing well now
when it comes to “pockets getting fatter,”
as Danny says. So I sneak in the back door
and run up the steps to the shower. After I
wash and put on clean clothes, I take a
deep breath and follow the sound of
conversation to the living room.
Jake stands when he sees me. He has on
fancy pants, lined with charcoal pinstripes,
and a robin's-egg blue polo shirt that is
formfitting enough to show that he is still
pretty fit. He is also wearing a watch with
diamonds all over the face, which Danny
would call Jake's bling-bling. My
brother's hair has thinned a little too, but
his head is gelled and looks swanky.
“Pat?” he says.
“Didn't I say you wouldn't recognize
him?” Momsays.
“You look like Arnold
Schwarzenegger.” He feels my bicep,
which I absolutely hate because I don't
like to be touched by anyone except Nikki.
Since he's my brother, I don't say anything.
“You're frickin' ripped,” he adds.
I look at the floor, because I remember
what he said about Nikki—I am still mad
about that—and yet I am also happy to see
my brother after not seeing him for what
feels like forever.
“Listen, Pat. I should have come to see
you more in Baltimore, but those places
freak me out and I … I … I just couldn't
see you like that, okay? Are you mad at
me?”
I am sort of still mad at Jake, but
suddenly I remember another one of
Danny's lines that is too appropriate to
leave unsaid, so I say, “Got nothin' but
love for ya.”
Jake looks at me for a second as if I had
punched him in the gut. He blinks a few
times almost as if he is going to cry, and
then he hugs me with both arms. “
sorry,” he says, and holds me for longer
than I like, which isn't very long—unless
it's Nikki hugging me.
When he lets go, Jake says, “I got a
present for you.” He pulls an Eagles jersey
out of a plastic bag and tosses it to me. I
hold it up and see it's number 84, which I
recognize as a wide receiver's number, but
I do not know the name. Isn't that young
receiver Freddie Mitchell number 84? I
think but do not say, because I don't want
to insult my brother, who was nice enough
to buy me a present.
“Who's Baskett?” I ask, which is the
name on the jersey.
“Undrafted rookie sensation Hank
Baskett? He's the preseason story. These
jerseys are hot on the streets of
Philadelphia. And now you have one to
wear to the games this year.”
“Wear to the games?”
“Now that you're home, you're gonna
want your old seat back, right?”
“At the Vet?”
“The Vet?” Jake laughs and looks at my
mother. My mother looks scared. “No—at
Lincoln Financial Field.”
“What's Lincoln Financial Field?”
“Didn't they let you watch TV in that
place? It's the home of the Eagles, the
stadium your team's played three seasons
in now.”
I know Jake is lying to me, but I don't
say anything.
“Anyway, you got a seat right next to
mine and Scott's. Season tickets, bro. Are
you psyched, or what?”
“I don't have any money for season
tickets,” I say, because I let Nikki have the
house and the cars and the bank accounts
when apart time began.
“I got your back.” Jake punches me in
the arm. “I might not have been a good
brother for the past few years, but  gonna make up for all that now that you're
home.”
I thank my brother, and then Mom starts
crying again. She cries so hard that she has
to leave the room, which is weird, since
Jake and I are making up and season tickets
to the Eagles are quite a nice present—not
to mention the jersey.
“Put on your Baskett jersey, bro.”
I put it on, and it feels good to be
wearing Eagles green, especially a jersey
that Jake picked out special for me.
“You wait and see how good your boy
Baskett is going to be this year,” Jake says
in a strange way, as if my future were
somehow linked to the Eagles' rookie
wide receiver—Hank Baskett.
The Concrete Doughnut
I notice that my father waits until the game
is just about to begin before he comes into
the family room. It is only preseason, so
we do not engage in any of the regularseason game-day rituals, but Dad has put
on his number 5 McNabb jersey and now
sits on the edge of the couch, ready to jump
out of his seat. He nods at my brother
solemnly but completely ignores me, even
after I heard my mother say, “Please, just
try to talk to Pat” when they were arguing
in the kitchen. Mom puts the food on
folding tables, takes a seat next to Jake,
and we all start to eat.
The food is excellent, but I am the only
one to say so. Mom seems happy to get the
compliment, saying, “Are you sure it's all
right?” like she does, because she is
modest when it comes to cooking, even
though she is a great cook.
“What do you think the Birds will do
this year, Dad?” Jake asks.
“Eight and eight,” my dad answers
pessimistically, like he always does at the
beginning of every NFL season.
“Eleven and five,” my brother says, to
which my father shakes his head and blows
air through his teeth. “Eleven and five?”
my brother asks me, and I nod because I
am optimistic, and winning eleven games
would most likely put the Eagles in the
play-offs. Since we have season tickets, I
know we are assured play-off tickets
should the Birds earn a home game, and
there's nothing better than an Eagles playoff game.
Now, I admit that I have not been
keeping up with the Birds in the offseason, but when the starting lineups are
announced, I am really surprised that many
of my favorite players are no longer on the
team. Duce Staley. Hugh Douglas. James
Thrash. Corey Simon. All gone. I want to
ask, “When? Why?” but don't, fearing my
father and brother will think I am not a true
fan anymore, which they said would
happen when I first moved to Baltimore
with Nikki and gave up my season ticket.
To my surprise, the Birds are also not
playing in Veterans Stadium, but at Lincoln
Financial Field, just like Jake had said.
Somehow they have built an entire stadiumsince last season, and I must have missed
all the hype because I was stuck in the bad
place. Still, something does not really
seemright to me.
“Where is Lincoln Financial Field?” I
try to ask nonchalantly when the
commercials come on after the first series.
My father turns his head and stares at me
but does not answer my question. He hates
me. He looks repulsed, like it is a chore to
sit in the family room watching the game
with his mentally messed-up son.
“It's in South Philadelphia, just like all
the other stadiums,” my brother says too
quickly. “Good crabby snacks, Mom.”
“Can you see Lincoln Financial Field
fromthe Vet?” I ask.
“The Vet's gone,” Jake says.
“Gone?” I ask. “What do you mean,
gone?”
“March 21, 2004. Seven a.m. It fell like
a house of cards,” my father says without
looking at me, just before sucking an
orange piece of meat from a chicken bone.
“Over two years ago.”
“What? I was at the Vet just last …” I
pause because I start to feel a little dizzy
and nauseous. “What year did you just
say?”
My father opens his mouth to speak, but
my mother cuts him off, saying, “A lot has
changed since you were away.”
Still, I refuse to believe the Vet is gone,
even after Jake retrieves his laptop fromhis car and shows me a downloaded video
of the Vet being imploded. Veterans
Stadium—which we used to call the
concrete doughnut—falls like a circle of
dominoes, gray dust fills the screen, and it
breaks my heart to see that place crumble,
even though I suspect that what I amviewing is a computergenerated trick.
When I was a boy, my father took me to
many Phillies games at the Vet, and of
course there were all of the Eagles games
with Jake, so it is hard to believe such a
big monument to my childhood could be
destroyed while I was in the bad place.
The video ends, and I ask my mother if I
can talk to her in the other room.
“What's wrong?” she says when we
reach the kitchen.
“Dr. Patel said that my new medication
might make me hallucinate.”
“Okay.”
“I think I just saw Veterans Stadium
demolished on Jake's computer.”
“Honey, you did. It was demolished
over two years ago.”
“What year is it?”
She hesitates, and then says, “Two
thousand and six.”
That would make me thirty-four. Apart
time would have been in progress for four
years. Impossible, I think. “How do I know
I am not hallucinating right now? How do I
know you're not a hallucination? You're
all hallucinations! All of you!” I realize I
amscreaming, but I can't help it.
Mom shakes her head, tries to touch my
cheek, but I swat her hand away and she
starts crying again.
“How long was I in the bad place? How
long? Tell me!”
“What's going on in there?” my father
yells. “We're trying to watch the game!”
“Shhhh!” my mother says through tears.
“How long?” I yell.
“Tell him, Jeanie! Go ahead! He's going
to find out sooner or later!” my father yells
fromthe family room. “Tell him!”
I grab my mother's shoulders, shake her
so her head wobbles all over, and yell,
“How long?”
“Almost four years,” Jake says. I look
back over my shoulder, and my brother is
in the kitchen doorway. “Now let go of
Mom.”
“Four years?” I laugh and let go of my
mother's shoulders. She covers her mouth
with her hands, and her eyes are full of pity
and tears. “Why are you guys playing jokes
on—”
I hear my mother scream, I feel the back
of my head hit the refrigerator, and then my
mind goes blank.
I Fear Him More Than Any
Other Human Being
After I returned to New Jersey, I thought I
was safe, because I did not think Kenny G
could leave the bad place, which I realize
is silly now—because Kenny G is
extremely talented and resourceful and a
powerful force to be reckoned with.
I have been sleeping in the attic because
it is so ferociously hot up here. After my
parents go to bed, I climb the stairs, turn
off the ventilation fan, slip into my old
winter sleeping bag, zipper it up so only
my face is exposed, and then sweat away
the pounds. Without the ventilation fan
running, the temperature climbs quickly,
and soon my sleeping bag is drenched with
perspiration and I can feel myself getting
thinner. I had done this for several nights,
and nothing strange or unusual happened at
all.
But in the attic tonight  sweating and
sweating and sweating, and through the
darkness, suddenly I hear the sexy
synthesizer chords. I keep my eyes closed,
hum a single note, and silently count to ten,
knowing that I am only hallucinating like
Dr. Patel said I might, but Kenny slaps me
across the face, and when I open my eyes,
there he is in my parents' attic, his curly
mane of hair haloed like Jesus. The
perfectly tanned forehead, that nose, that
eternal five o'clock shadow and sharp
jawline. The top three buttons of his shirt
are undone so that you can see a little chest
hair. Mr. G might not seem evil, but I fear
himmore than any other human being.
“How? How did you find me?” I ask
him.
Kenny G winks at me and then puts his
gleaming soprano sax to his lips.
I shiver, even though I am drenched in
sweat. “Please,” I beg him, “just leave me
alone!”
But he takes a deep breath and his
soprano sax starts to sing the bright notes
of “Songbird”—and immediately  upright in my sleeping bag, repetitively
slamming the heel of my right hand into the
little white scar above my right eyebrow,
trying to make the music stop—Kenny G's
hips are swaying right before my eyes—with every brain jolt  yelling, “Stop!
Stop! Stop! Stop!”—the end of his
instrument is in my face, pounding me with
smooth jazz—I feel the blood rushing up
into my forehead—Kenny G's solo has
reached a climax—bang, bang, bang, bang
—
And then my mother and father are trying
to restrain my arms, but  screaming,
“Stop playing that song! Just stop! Please!”
When my mother gets knocked to the
floor, my father kicks me hard in the
stomach—which makes Kenny G vanish
and kills the music—and when I fall back
gasping for air, Dad jumps on my chest and
punches me in the cheek, and suddenly my
mom is trying to pull Dad off me and  sobbing like a baby; my mother is
screaming at my father, telling him to stop
hitting me, and then he's off me and she's
telling me everything is going to be okay
even after my father has punched me in the
face as hard as he could.
“That's it, Jeanie. He's going back to
that hospital in the morning. First thing,”
my father says, and then stomps down the
stairs.
I can hardly think,  sobbing so
loudly.
My mother sits down next to me and
says, “It's okay, Pat.  here.”
I put my head in my mother's lap and cry
myself to sleep as Momstrokes my hair.
When I open my eyes, the ventilation fan is
back on, sun is streaming through the
screen in the nearest window, and Mom is
still stroking my hair.
“How did you sleep?” she asks me,
forcing a smile. Her eyes are red and her
cheeks are streaked with tears.
For a second it feels nice to be lying
next to my mom, the weight of her small
hand on my head, her soft voice lingering
in my ear, but soon the memory of what
happened the night before forces me to sit
up—and then my heart is pounding and a
wave of dread courses through my limbs.
“Don't send me back to the bad place. 
sorry.  so sorry. Please,” I beg her,
pleading with everything I have, because
that's how much I hate the bad place and
pessimistic Dr. Timbers.
“You're staying right here with us,”
Momsays—looking me in the eyes like she
does when she is telling the truth—and
then she kisses me on the cheek.
We go down to the kitchen, where she
cooks me some delicious eggs scrambled
with cheese and tomatoes, and I actually
swallow all of my pills because I feel I
owe it to Mom after knocking her down
and upsetting my father.
I am shocked when I look at the clock
and see it is already 11:00 a.m. So I start
my workout as soon as my plate is clean,
double-timing everything just to keep up
with my routine.
The Dress-up Dinner
Ronnie finally comes to visit me in my
basement and says, “ on my way home,
so I only have a few minutes.”
As I finish my set of bench presses, I
smirk because I know what that statement
means. Veronica does not know he has
come to see me, and Ronnie needs to keep
it quick if he does not want to get caught
doing something without Veronica's
permission—something like saying hello to
his best friend, whom he has not seen for a
long time.
When I sit up, he says, “What happened
to your face?”
I touch my forehead. “My hands slipped
yesterday, and I dropped the bar on
myself.”
“And it made your cheek all puffy like
that?”
I shrug because I do not really want to
tell himmy father punched me.
“Man, you really have trimmed down
and bulked up. I like your gym,” he says,
eyeballing my weight bench and Stomach
Master 6000, and then he sticks out his
hand. “Think I could come over and work
out with you?”
I stand, shake his hand, and say, “Sure,”
knowing the question is only yet another
one of Ronnie's false promises.
“Listen,  sorry I never came to see
you when you were in Baltimore, but we
had Emily, and well, you know how it is.
But I felt like the letters kept us close. And
now that you're home, we can hang out all
the time, right?”
“As if—,” I start to say, but then bite my
tongue.
“As if—what?”
“Nothing.”
“You still think Veronica hates you?”
I keep my mouth shut.
He smiles and says, “Well, if she hated
you, would she be inviting you over for
dinner tomorrow night?”
I look at Ronnie, trying to gauge whether
he is serious or not.
“Veronica's making a big meal to
welcome you home. So are you coming, or
what?”
“Sure,” I say, still not believing my ears,
because Ronnie's promises usually do not
come with specific words like “tomorrow”
attached.
“Great. Be at my house at seven o'clock
for drinks. Dinner's at eight, and it's going
to be one of the wife's formal candlelit
three-course meals, so wear something
nice, okay? You know how Veronica is
about her dress-up dinners,” he says, and
then hugs sweaty me, which I tolerate only
because I am so shocked by Veronica's
invitation. With a hand on my shoulder,
Ronnie looks me in the eye and says,
“Man, it's good to have you home, Pat.”
As I watch him jog up the stairs, I think
about how much trash Nikki and I would
talk about Ronnie and Veronica if apart
time were over and Nikki was going to the
dress-up dinner with me.
“Dress-up dinner,” Nikki would say.
“Are we in elementary school?”
God, Nikki hates Veronica.
If I Backslide
Knowing that if I wear the wrong thing,
Veronica will say I have ruined her night
—the way she did that one time when I
wore Bermuda shorts and sandals to a
dress-up dinner—I can't stop thinking
about what I am going to wear to her
dinner party, so much that I don't even
remember it's Friday, and therefore, time
to see Dr. Patel, until Mom calls down in
the middle of my workout, saying, “We're
leaving in fifteen minutes. Hit the shower!”
In the cloud room, I pick the brown
chair. We recline, and Cliff says, “Your
mother tells me you've had quite a week.
Want to talk about it?”
So I tell him about Veronica's dress-up
party and how my old dress clothes don't
fit because I have lost so much weight, and
I have no swanky clothes other than the
shirt my brother has recently given me, and
I am pretty stressed out about going to a
dinner party and wish I could just spend
some time alone with Ronnie lifting
weights, so that I would not have to see
Veronica, who even Nikki says is a mean
person.
Dr. Patel nods a few times like he does,
and then says, “Do you like the new shirt
your brother gave you? Do you feel
comfortable wearing it?”
I tell himI absolutely love my new shirt.
“So wear that one to the dress-up
dinner, and  sure Veronica will like it
too.”
“Are you sure?” I ask. “Because
Veronica is really particular about what
you should wear to dinner parties.”
“ sure,” he says, which makes me
feel a whole lot better.
“What about pants?”
“What's wrong with the pants you have
on now?”
I look down at the tan khakis my mompurchased for me at the Gap the other day
because she says I shouldn't wear
sweatpants to my doctor's appointments,
and even though the pants are not as
swanky as my new Eagles jersey, they do
look okay, so I shrug and stop worrying
about what to wear to Veronica's dinner
party.
Cliff tries to get me to talk about Kenny
G, but I only close my eyes, hum a single
note, and silently count to ten every time he
says Mr. G's name.
Then Cliff says he knows that I have
been rough with my mother, shaking her in
the kitchen and knocking her down in the
attic, which makes me really sad because I
love my mom so much and she rescued me
from the bad place and has even signed all
those legal documents—and yet I cannot
rightly deny what Cliff has said. My chest
heats up with guilt until I can't take it.
Truth be told, I break down and cry—
sobbing—for at least five minutes.
“Your mother is risking a lot, because
she believes in you.”
His words make me cry even harder.
“You want to be a good person, don't
you, Pat?”
I nod. I cry. I do want to be a good
person. I really do.
“ going to up your meds,” Dr. Patel
tells me. “You might feel a little sluggish,
but it should help to curb your violent
outbursts. You need to know it's your
actions that will make you a good person,
not desire. And if you have any more
episodes, I might have to recommend that
you go back to the neural health facility for
more intensive treatments, which—”
“No. Please. I'll be good,” I say
quickly, knowing that Nikki is less likely
to return if I backslide into the bad place.
“Trust me.”
“I do,” Dr. Patel replies with a smile.
I Don't Know How This Works
After some more lifting in the basement, I
put on my trash bag and run my ten miles.
Afterward, I shower, spray some of my
father's cologne, and walk into the mist—just like Mom taught me to do back in high
school. I roll on some underarm deodorant
and then don my new khakis and my Hank
Baskett jersey.
When I ask my mother how I look, she
says, “Very handsome. So handsome. But
do you really think you should wear your
Eagles jersey to a dinner party? You can
wear one of the Gap shirts I bought you, or
you can borrow one of your father's polo
shirts.”
“It's okay,” I say, and smile confidently.
“Dr. Patel said wearing this shirt was a
good idea.”
“Did he?” my mom says with a laugh,
and then she removes an arrangement of
flowers and a bottle of white wine fromthe refrigerator.
“What's this?”
“Give these to Veronica and tell her I
said thanks. Ronnie's been a good friend to
you.” And then Mom looks like she is
going to cry again.
I kiss her goodbye, and with my hands
full of flowers and wine, I walk down the
street and across Knight's Park to Ronnie's
house.
Ronnie answers the door wearing a shirt
and tie, which makes me feel like Dr. Patel
was wrong after all and I amunderdressed.
But Ronnie looks at my new jersey, checks
the name on the back—probably to make
sure I am not wearing an outdated Freddie
Mitchell jersey—and says, “Hank Baskett
is the man! Where did you get that jersey
this early in the season? It's great!” which
makes me feel so much better.
We follow the meaty aroma through
their swanky living room and their swanky
dining roomto the kitchen, where Veronica
is feeding Emily, whom I am surprised to
see looking much older than a newborn
baby.
“Hank Baskett's in the house,” Ronnie
says.
“Who?” Veronica answers, but she
smiles when she sees the flowers and the
wine. “Pour moi?”
She stares at my puffy cheek for a
second, but doesn't mention it, which I
appreciate. I hand her what my mother has
sent, and Veronica kisses me on my unpuffy cheek.
“Welcome home, Pat,” she says, which
surprises me because she sounds sincere.
“I hope you don't mind, but I've invited
someone else to dinner,” Veronica adds.
She winks at me and then lifts the lid off
the single pot on the stove, releasing a
warmtomato and basil aroma.
“Who?” I ask.
“You'll see,” she says without looking
up fromstirring her sauce.
Before I can say more, Ronnie is lifting
Emily from her high chair, saying, “Meet
Uncle Pat,” which sounds strange until I
realize he is talking about me. “Say hello
to Uncle Pat, Emily.”
She waves her little hand at me, and then
I have Emily in my arms. Her dark eyes
examine my face, and she smiles as though
she approves. “Pap,” she says, pointing at
my nose.
“See how smart my girl is, Uncle Pat,”
Ronnie says, petting the silky black hair on
Emily's head. “She already knows your
name.”
Emily smells like the mashed carrots
that coat her cheeks until Ronnie wipes
them clean with a wet napkin. I have to
admit that Emily is a cute kid, and I
instantly understand why Ronnie has
written me so many letters about his
daughter—why he loves her so much. I
start to think about having children with
Nikki someday and I become so happy that
I give little Emily a kiss on the forehead,
as if she were Nikki's baby and I was her
father. And then I kiss Emily's forehead
again and again, until she giggles.
“Beer?” Ronnie says.
“ not really supposed to drink,
because  on medications and—”
“Beer,” Ronnie says, and then we are
drinking beers on his deck as Emily sits in
her father's lap and sucks on a bottle filled
with watered-down apple juice.
“It's good to have a beer with you,”
Ronnie says, just before clinking his
Yuengling Lager bottle against mine.
“Who's coming over for dinner?”
“Veronica's sister, Tiffany.”
“Tiffany and Tommy?” I say,
remembering Tiffany's husband from
Ronnie and Veronica's wedding.
“Just Tiffany.”
“Where's Tommy?”
Ronnie takes a long swig of his beer,
looks up at the setting sun, and says,
“Tommy died some time ago.”
“What?” I say, because I hadn't heard.
“God,  sorry to hear that.”
“Just make sure you don't bring up
Tommy tonight, okay?”
“Sure,” I say, and then drink a few large
gulps of my beer. “So how did he die?”
“How did who die?” says a woman's
voice.
“Hi, Tiffany,” Ronnie says, and
suddenly she is standing with us on the
porch. Tiffany's wearing a black evening
dress, heels, and a diamond necklace, and
her makeup and hair look too perfect to me
—as if she is trying too hard to look
attractive, like old ladies sometimes do.
“You remember Pat, right?”
I stand, and as we shake hands, the way
Tiffany looks into my eyes makes me feel
really funny.
We move back into the house, and after
some small talk, Tiffany and I are left
alone on opposite ends of the living-roomcouch as Veronica finishes cooking the
meal and Ronnie puts Emily to bed.
“You look very pretty tonight,” I say
when the silence grows awkward.
Before apart time began, I never ever
complimented Nikki on her looks, and I
think this really hurt her self-esteem. I
figure I can now practice complimenting
women on their looks so it will come
naturally to me when Nikki returns,
although Tiffany really does look pretty,
even if she is trying too hard with the
makeup. She is a few years older than me,
but has a fit body and long, silky black
hair.
“What happened to your cheek?” Tiffany
asks without looking at me.
“Weight-lifting accident.”
She just stares at her hands, which are
folded in her lap. Her nails have been
recently painted a blood red.
“So where are you working now?” I say,
thinking this is a safe question.
Her nose crinkles, as if I had farted. “I
got fired frommy job a few months ago.”
“Why?”
“Does it really matter?” she says, then
stands and walks into the kitchen.
I down the remainder of my second beer
and wait for Ronnie to come back.
Dinner is elegant, with candles going and
fancy plates and special silverware, but
awkward, as Tiffany and I are completely
silent while Veronica and Ronnie talk
about us as if we aren't there.
“Pat is a big history buff. He knows
everything about every single U.S.
president. Go ahead. Ask him anything,”
Ronnie says.
When Tiffany fails to look up from her
food, Veronica says, “My sister is a
modern dancer and has a recital in two
months. You should see her dance, Pat. So
beautiful. My God, I wish I could dance
like my sister. If she allows us this year,
we're all going to her recital, and you
should definitely come with us.”
I nod carefully when Tiffany looks up
for my response, thinking I'll go just so I
can practice being kind. Also, Nikki would
probably want to go to a dance recital, and
I want to do the things Nikki likes fromnow on.
“Pat and I are going to work out
together,” Ronnie says. “Look how fit my
buddy is. He puts me to shame. I need to
get in that basement with you, Pat.”
“Tiffany loves the shore, don't you,
Tiff? The four of us should take Emily to
the beach one weekend in September after
the crowds have left. We could have a
picnic. Do you like picnics, Pat? Tiffany
loves picnics. Don't you, Tiff?”
Ronnie and Veronica trade facts about
their guests for almost fifteen minutes
straight, and then finally there's a lull, so I
ask if any of themknows anything about the
Vet being imploded, and to my surprise
Ronnie and Veronica both confirm that it
was demolished years ago, just like my
father said, which worries me
tremendously because I have no memory of
this or the years that have supposedly
transpired since. I think about asking how
long ago Emily was born, because I
remember getting a letter and picture fromRonnie soon after her birth, but I get scared
and do not ask.
“I hate football,” Tiffany offers. “More
than anything in the world.”
And then we all eat without saying
anything for a while.
The three courses Ronnie had promised
turn out to be beer, lasagna garnished with
baked asparagus, and key lime pie. All
three are great, and I tell Veronica as much
—practicing again for when Nikki comes
back—to which Veronica replies, “Did
you think my food would be bad?”
I know she means it as a joke, but Nikki
would have used the question to prove just
how witchy Veronica can be. I think about
how if Nikki were here, after we went
home, we'd stay up talking in bed like we
used to when we were both a little drunk—and sitting now at Ronnie's dinner table,
the thought makes me feel sad and happy at
the same time.
When we finish our pie, Tiffany stands
and says, “ tired.”
“But we've hardly finished eating,”
Veronica says, “and we have Trivial
Pursuit to—”
“I said  tired.”
There is a silence.
“Well,” Tiffany finally says, “are you
going to walk me home or what?”
It takes me a second to realize that
Tiffany is talking to me, but I quickly say,
“Sure.”
Since I am practicing being kind now,
what else could I have said—right?
It is a warm night, but not too sticky.
Tiffany and I walk a block before I ask
where she lives.
“With my parents, okay?” she says
without looking at me.
“Oh.” I realize we are only about four
blocks from Mr. and Mrs. Webster's
house.
“You live with your parents too, right?”
“Yeah.”
“So no big whoop.”
It is dark, and I guess it's about 9:30
p.m. With her arms crossing her chest,
Tiffany walks pretty quickly in her clicky
heels, and soon we are standing in front of
her parents' house.
When she turns to face me, I think she is
simply going to say good night, but she
says, “Look, I haven't dated since college,
so I don't know how this works.”
“How what works?”
“I've seen the way you've been looking
at me. Don't bullshit me, Pat. I live in the
addition around back, which is completely
separate from the house, so there's no
chance of my parents walking in on us. I
hate the fact that you wore a football jersey
to dinner, but you can fuck me as long as
we turn the lights out first. Okay?”
 too shocked to speak, and for a long
time we just stand there.
“Or not,” Tiffany adds just before she
starts crying.
 so confused that  speaking and
thinking and worrying all at the same time,
not really knowing what to do or say.
“Look, I enjoyed spending time with you,
and I think you're really pretty, but 
married,” I say, and lift up my wedding
ring as proof.
“So am I,” she says, and holds up the
diamond on her left hand.
I remember what Ronnie told me about
her husband having passed away, which
makes her a widow and not married, but I
do not say anything about that, because I
am practicing being kind instead of right,
which I learned in therapy and Nikki will
like.
It makes me really sad to see that
Tiffany is still wearing her wedding ring.
And then suddenly Tiffany is hugging me
so that her face is between my pecs, and
she's crying her makeup onto my new Hank
Baskett jersey. I don't like to be touched
by anyone except Nikki, and I really do not
want Tiffany to get makeup on the jersey
my brother was nice enough to give me—a
jersey with real stitchedon letters and
numbers—but I surprise myself by hugging
Tiffany back. I rest my chin on top of her
shiny black hair, scent her perfume, and
suddenly I am crying too, which scares me
a lot. Our bodies shudder together, and we
are all waterworks. We cry together for at
least ten minutes, and then she lets go and
runs around to the back of her parents'
house.
When I arrive home, my father is
watching television. The Eagles are
playing the Jets in a preseason game I did
not know was on. He does not even look at
me, probably because I am such a lousy
Eagles fan now. My mother tells me that
Ronnie called, saying it's important and I
should call himback immediately.
“What happened? What's on your
jersey? Is that makeup?” my mother asks,
and when I do not answer, she says, “You
better call Ronnie back.”
But I only lie down in my bed and stare
at the ceiling of my bedroom until the sun
comes up.
Filled with Molten Lava
The picture I have of Nikki is a head shot,
and I wish I had told her how much I liked
it.
She paid a professional photographer to
take the photo, and she actually had her
hair and makeup done at the local salon
before going to the shoot; plus she also
went to the tanning booths the week before
the picture was taken, since my birthday is
in late December and the picture was my
twenty-eighth-birthday present.
Nikki's head is turned so you see more
of her left cheek than you do her right,
which is outlined by her strawberry blond
curly hair. You can see her left ear, and
she is wearing the dangling diamond
earrings I gave her for our first wedding
anniversary. She had gone to the tanning
booths just to bring out the freckles on her
nose, which I love and miss every winter.
You can see the little freckles clearly in
the shot, and Nikki said this was the main
idea and she even told the photographer to
make the freckles the focal point because I
love her seasonal freckles best. Her face is
sort of like an upside-down triangle, as her
chin is sort of pointy. Her nose is like the
nose of a lioness, long and regal-looking,
and her eyes are the color of grass. In the
picture she is making that pouting face I
love—not quite a smile, not quite a smirk
—and her lips are so glossy that I can't
resist kissing the picture every time I look
at it.
So I kiss the picture again, feeling the
cold flatness of the glass, leaving a kissshaped smudge, which I wipe away with
my shirt.
“God, I miss you so much, Nikki,” I say,
but the picture is silent, like always. “ sorry that I did not originally like this
picture, because you would not believe
how much I like it now. I know that I told
you this was not such a great present, back
before I started practicing being kind
rather than right. Yes, I had specifically
asked for a new barbecue, but  glad that
I have the picture now, because it helped
me get through all that time in the bad
place and made me want to be a better
person, and  changed now, so I not only
realize but appreciate that you put a lot of
thought and effort into this present. It's the
only likeness I have of you since some bad
person stole all the pictures of us that were
in my mother's house—because the
pictures were in expensive frames, and—”
Suddenly, for some reason, I remember
that there's a video of our wedding, and in
this video Nikki is walking and dancing
and speaking, and there's even this one
part where Nikki talks directly into the
camera as if she were talking to me, and
she says, “I love you, Pat Peoples, you
sexy stud muffin,” which made me laugh so
hard the first time we watched the video
with her parents.
I knock on my parents' bedroom door,
and then I knock again.
“Pat?” my momsays.
“I have to work in the morning, you
know?” my father says, but I ignore him.
“Mom?” I say to the door.
“What is it?”
“Where's my wedding video?”
There is a silence.
“You remember my wedding video,
right?”
Still, she does not say anything.
“Is it in the cardboard box in the familyroomcloset with all the other videos?”
Through the door I hear her and my
father whispering, and then my mother
says, “I think we gave you our copy of the
video, honey. It must be in your old house.
Sorry.”
“What? No, it's downstairs in the
family-roomcloset. Never mind, I'll find it
myself. Good night,” I say, but when I get
to the family-room closet and go through
the box of videos, it's not there. I turn
around and see that my mother has
followed me down into the family room.
She is in her nightgown. She is biting her
nails. “Where is it?”
“We gave it to—”
“Don't lie to me!”
“We must have misplaced it, but it's
sure to turn up sooner or later.”
“Misplaced it? It's irreplaceable!” It's
just a videocassette, but I can't help feeling
angry, which I realize is one of my
problems. “How could you lose it when
you know how important it is to me?
How?”
“Calmdown, Pat.” My mother raises her
palms so they are both in front of her chest
and then takes a careful step toward me, as
if she is trying to sneak up on a rabid dog.
“Relax, Pat. Just relax.”
But I can feel myself getting more and
more angry, so before I say or do anything
dumb, I remember that I am close to being
sent back to the bad place, where Nikki
will never find me. I stormpast my mother,
go down into the basement, and do five
hundred sit-ups on the Stomach Master
6000. When I finish, I am still angry, so I
ride the stationary bike for forty-five
minutes and then do shots of water until I
feel hydrated enough to attempt five
hundred push-ups. Only when my pecs feel
like they are filled with molten lava do I
deemmyself calmenough to sleep.
When I go upstairs, all is quiet and no
light is leaking out from under my parents'
bedroom door, so I grab my framed picture
of Nikki, take her upstairs to the attic, turn
off the ventilation fan, slip into my
sleeping bag, set up Nikki next to my head,
kiss her good night—and then begin to
sweat away some more pounds.
I haven't been up in the attic since the
last time Kenny G visited me. I am afraid
he will come back, but I also feel sort of
fat. I close my eyes, hum a single note,
silently count to ten over and over again,
and the next morning I wake up unscathed.
Failing Like Dimmesdale Did
Maybe Puritans were simply dumber than
modern people, but I cannot believe how
long it took those seventeenth-century
Bostonians to figure out that their spiritual
leader knocked up the local hussy. I had
the mystery solved in chapter eight, when
Hester turns to Dimmesdale and says,
“Speak thou for me!” I know we were
assigned Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter
back in high school, and if I had known the
book was filled with so much sex and
espionage, I might have read it when I was
sixteen. God, I can't wait to ask Nikki if
she hypes up the racy stuff in her class,
because I know teenagers would actually
read the book if she did.
I didn't care much for Dimmesdale,
because he had such a great woman and he
denied himself a life with her. Now, I
understand that it would not have been
easy for him to explain how he knocked up
another man's teenage wife, especially
since he was a man of the cloth, but if
there's one theme Hawthorne hammers
home, it's that time heals all wounds,
which Dimmesdale learns, but too late.
Plus,  thinking God would have wanted
Pearl to have had a father, and probably
counted Dimmesdale's disregard for his
daughter as a greater sin than having sex
with another man's wife.
Now, I sympathize with Chillingworth
—a lot. I mean, he sends his young bride
over to the New World, trying to give her a
better life, and she ends up pregnant by
another man, which is the ultimate slap in
the face, right? But he was so old and nasty
and really had no business marrying a
young girl anyway. When he began to
psychologically torture Dimmesdale,
giving him all those strange roots and
herbs, Chillingworth reminded me of Dr.
Timbers and his staff. I realized then that
Chillingworth was not ever going to
practice being kind, so I gave up hope for
him.
But I absolutely loved Hester, because
she believed in silver linings. Even when
that nasty throng of bearded men in hats
and fat women were against her, saying she
should be branded on the forehead even,
she stuck to her guns and sewed and helped
people when she could and tried her best
to raise her daughter—even when Pearl
proved to be somewhat of a demonic child.
Even though Hester did not get to be
with Dimmesdale in the end—which is a
flaw, if you ask me—I felt like she lived a
fulfilled life and got to see her daughter
grow up and marry well, which was kind
of nice.
But I did realize that no one really
appreciated Hester for who she was until it
was too late. When she needed help most,
she was abandoned—and only when she
offered help to others was she beloved.
This sort of suggests that it is important to
appreciate the good women in your life
before it is too late, which is a pretty good
message to give high school kids. I wish
my high school teacher had taught me that
lesson, because I certainly would have
treated Nikki differently when we were
first married. Then again, maybe this is the
sort of thing you have to learn by living
your life—failing like Dimmesdale did,
and I guess like I did too.
That scene when Dimmesdale and
Hester finally stand together in town for
the first time made me wish apart time was
over already so I could stand with Nikki in
some public place and apologize for being
such a jerk in the past. Then I would tell
her my thoughts about Hawthorne's
classic, which would make her happy for
sure. God, she is going to be so impressed
that I actually read a book written in oldfashioned English.
Do You Like Foreign Films?
Cliff asks about Veronica's dinner party in
a way that lets me know my mother has
already discussed it with him—probably
in an effort to get me to wear the collared
shirts she bought me at the Gap, which
Mom loves and I do not love. As soon as I
sit down in the brown recliner, Cliff
broaches the subject, pinching his chin the
way he does every time he asks me a
question my mother has already answered.
Even though I now recognize Cliff's tell,
I am excited to let him know he was right
about wearing the shirt my brother had
given me. Surprisingly, he does not want to
talk about what clothes I wore; he wants to
talk about Tiffany, and he keeps asking
what I thought about her, how she made me
feel, and if I enjoyed her company.
At first I ampolite and answer by saying
that Tiffany was nice and well dressed and
had a pretty good body, but Cliff keeps
pushing for the truth like therapists do,
because they all have some sort of psychic
ability that allows them to see through your
lies, and therefore they know you will
eventually tire of the talking game and will
offer up the truth.
Finally I say, “Well, the thing is—and I
don't like saying this—but Tiffany is kind
of slutty.”
“What do you mean?” Cliff asks me.
“I mean she's sort of a whore.”
Cliff sits forward a little. He looks
surprised, and uncomfortable enough to
make me feel uncomfortable. “On what do
you base your observation? Did she dress
provocatively?”
“No. I told you already. She wore a nice
dress. But as soon as we finished our
dessert, she asked me to walk her home.”
“What's wrong with that?”
“Nothing. But at the end of the walk she
asked me to have sexual intercourse with
her, and not in those words.”
Cliff removes his fingers from his chin,
sits back, and says, “Oh.”
“I know. It shocked me too, especially
because she knows  married.”
“So did you?”
“Did I what?”
“Have sexual intercourse with Tiffany?”
At first Cliff's words don't register, but
when they do, I become angry. “No!”
“Why not?”
I cannot believe Cliff has actually asked
me such a question, especially since he is a
happily married man himself, but I dignify
the inquiry with an answer anyway.
“Because I love my wife! That's why!”
“That's what I thought,” he says, which
makes me feel a little better. He is only
testing my morals, which is perfectly
understandable, because people outside of
mental institutions need to have good
morals so that the world will continue to
work without any major interruptions—and
happy endings will flourish.
Then I say, “I don't even know why
Tiffany would ask me to have sex with her
anyway. I mean,  not even an attractive
guy; she's pretty and could do a lot better
than me for sure. So  thinking now that
maybe she's a nymphomaniac. What do
you think?”
“I don't know whether she is a
nymphomaniac or not,” he says. “But I do
know that sometimes people say and do
what they think others want themto. Maybe
Tiffany really did not want to have sex
with you, but only offered something she
thought you would find valuable, so you
would value her.”
I think about his explanation for a
second and then say, “So you're saying that
Tiffany thought I wanted to have sex with
her?”
“Not necessarily.” He grabs his chin
again. “Your mother told me you came
home with makeup on your shirt. Do you
mind if I ask how that happened?”
Reluctantly, because I don't like to
gossip, I tell him about Tiffany's wearing
her wedding ring even after her husband
died, and the hugging and the crying we did
in front of her parents' house.
Cliff nods and says, “It seems like
Tiffany really needs a friend, and that she
thought having sex with you would make
you want to be her friend. But tell me again
how you handled the situation.”
So I tell him exactly what led us to the
hug and how I let her get makeup on my
Hank Baskett jersey and—
“Where did you get a Hank Baskett
jersey?” he asks me.
“I told you. My brother gave it to me.”
“That's what you wore to the dinner
party?”
“Yeah, just like you told me to.”
He smiles and even chuckles, which
surprises me. Then he adds, “What did
your friends say?”
“Ronnie said that Hank Baskett is the
man.”
“Hank Baskett is the man. I bet he
catches at least seven touchdowns this
season.”
“Cliff, you're an Eagles fan?”
He does the Eagles chant—“E!-A!-G!-
L!-E!-S! EAGLES!”—which makes me
laugh because he is my therapist and I did
not know therapists could like NFL
football.
“Well, now that I know you too bleed
green, we'll have to talk Birds off the
clock,” Cliff says. “So you really let
Tiffany cry her makeup onto your brandnew Hank Baskett jersey?”
“Yeah, and it's one with stitched-on
numbers, not the cheap iron-ons.”
“Authentic Hank Baskett jersey!” he
says. “That was certainly very kind of you,
Pat. It sounds like Tiffany only really
needed a hug, which you gave her because
you are a nice guy.”
I can't help smiling, because I really amtrying hard to be a nice guy. “Yeah, I
know, but now she's always following me
all over town.”
“What do you mean?”
So I tell Cliff that since the dinner party,
whenever I put on a trash bag and leave my
house for a run, Tiffany is always waiting
outside in her little running outfit and pink
headband. “Very politely, I told her that I
do not like running with other people and
asked her to leave me alone, but she
ignored my request and simply jogged five
feet behind me for my entire run. The next
day, she did the same thing, and she keeps
on doing it. Somehow she's figured out my
schedule, and she's always there when I
leave my house an hour before sunset—ready to shadow me wherever I jog. I run
fast, and she stays with me. I run on
dangerous streets, and she follows. She
never tires out either—and just keeps
running down the street when I finally stop
in front of my house. She doesn't even say
hello or goodbye.”
“Why don't you want her to follow
you?” Cliff asks.
So I ask himhow his wife, Sonja, would
feel if some hot woman shadowed himevery time he went for a run.
He smiles the way guys do when they
are alone and talking about women in a
sexual way, and then he says, “So you think
Tiffany is hot?” This surprises me because
I did not know therapists were allowed to
talk like guys do when they are buddies,
and I wonder if this means that Cliff thinks
of me as his buddy now.
“Sure, she's hot,” I say. “But 
married.”
He grabs his chin and says, “How long
has it been since you've seen Nikki?”
I tell himI don't know. “Maybe a couple
of months,” I say.
“Do you really believe that?” he asks,
grabbing his chin again.
When I say I do, I hear the yelling in my
voice and even allow the f-word to slip
out. Immediately I feel bad because Cliff
was talking to me like a friend, and sane
people should not yell and curse at their
buddies.
“ sorry,” I say when Cliff starts to
look scared.
“It's okay,” he says, and forces a smile.
“I should believe that you really mean
what you tell me.” He scratches his head
for a second and then says, “My wife loves
foreign films. Do you like foreign films?”
“With subtitles?”
“Yes.”
“I hate those types of films.”
“Me too,” Cliff says. “Mostly because
—”
“No happy endings.”
“Exactly,” Cliff says, pointing a brown
finger at my face. “So depressing most of
the time.”
I nod wholeheartedly in agreement, even
though I haven't been to see any movies for
a long time, and won't until Nikki returns,
because I am now watching the movie of
my life as I live it.
“My wife used to beg me to take her to
see these foreign films with subtitles all
the time,” Cliff says. “It seemed like every
day she would ask me if we might go to
see a foreign film, until I broke down and
started taking her. Every Wednesday night
we'd go to the Ritz movie theater and see
some depressing movie. And you know
what?”
“What?”
“After a year we simply stopped going.”
“Why?”
“She stopped asking.”
“Why?”
“I don't know. But maybe if you take an
interest in Tiffany, ask her to run with you
and maybe to go out to dinner a few times
—maybe after a few weeks, she will grow
tired of the chase and leave you alone. Let
her get what she wants, and maybe she will
not want it anymore. Understand?”
I do understand, but cannot help asking,
“Do you think that will really work?”
And Cliff shrugs in a way that makes me
believe it will.
I Can Share Raisin Bran
On the drive home from Cliff's office I ask
my mom if she thinks asking Tiffany on a
date is the best way to get rid of her once
and for all, and Mom says, “You shouldn't
be trying to get rid of anyone. You need
friends, Pat. Everyone does.”
I don't say anything in response.  afraid Momis rooting for me to fall in love
with Tiffany, because whenever she calls
Tiffany my “friend,” she says the word
with a smile on her face and a hopeful look
in her eye, which bothers me tremendously
because Mom is the only person in my
family who does not hate Nikki. Also, I
know Mom looks out the window when I
go on my runs, because she will tease me,
saying “I see your friend showed up again”
when I return froma jog.
Mom pulls into the driveway, shuts off
the car engine, and says, “I can loan you
money should you ever want to take your
friend to dinner,” and again, the way she
says “friend” makes me feel tingly in a bad
way. I say nothing in response, and my
mother does the strangest thing—she
giggles.
I finish my weight training for the day
and put on a trash bag, and as I begin
stretching on the front lawn, I see that
Tiffany is jogging up and down the length
of my parents' block, waiting for me to
begin running. I tell myself to ask her out to
dinner so I can end this madness and get
back to being alone on my runs, but instead
I simply start running, and Tiffany follows.
I go past the high school, down Collings
Avenue to the Black Horse Pike, make a
left and then another left into Oaklyn, run
down Kendall Boulevard to the Oaklyn
Public School, up past the Manor Bar to
the White Horse Pike, make a right and
then a left onto Cuthbert, and I run into
Westmont. When I get to the Crystal Lake
Diner, I turn and jog in place. Tiffany jogs
in place and stares at her feet.
“Hey,” I say to her. “You want to have
dinner with me at this diner?”
“Tonight?” she says without looking up
at me.
“Yeah.”
“What time?”
“We have to walk here because  not
allowed to drive.”
“What time?”
“I'll be in front of your house at seventhirty.”
Next, the most amazing thing happens:
Tiffany simply jogs away from me, and I
cannot believe I finally got her to leave me
alone. I am so happy I alter my route and
run at least fifteen miles instead of ten, and
when the sun sets, the clouds in the west
are all lined with electricity, which I know
is a good omen.
At home, I tell my mother I need some
money so I can take Tiffany out to dinner.
My mother tries to hide her smile as she
retrieves her purse from the kitchen table.
“Where are you taking her?”
“The Crystal Lake Diner.”
“You shouldn't need more than forty
dollars then, right?”
“I guess.”
“It'll be on the counter when you come
down.”
I shower, apply underarm deodorant,
use my father's cologne, and put on my
khakis and the dark green button-down
shirt Mom bought me at the Gap just
yesterday. For some reason, my mother is
systematically buying an entire wardrobe
for me—and every piece is from the Gap.
When I go downstairs, my mom tells me I
need to tuck in my shirt and wear a belt.
“Why?” I ask, because I do not really
care if I look respectable or not. I only
want to get rid of Tiffany once and for all.
But when Mom says, “Please,” I
remember that I am trying to be kind
instead of right—and I also owe Mombecause she rescued me fromthe bad place
—so I go upstairs and put on the brown
leather belt she purchased for me earlier in
the week.
Mom comes into my room with a shoe
box and says, “Put on some dress socks
and try these on.” I open the box, and these
swanky-looking brown leather loafers are
inside. “Jake said these are what men your
age wear casually,” Mom says. When I
slip the loafers on and look in the mirror, I
see how thin my waistline appears, and I
think I look almost as swanky as my little
brother.
With forty bucks in my pocket, I walk
across Knight's Park to Tiffany's parents'
house. She is outside, waiting for me on
the sidewalk, but I see her mother peeking
out the window. Mrs. Webster ducks
behind the blinds when we make eye
contact. Tiffany does not say hello, but
begins walking before I can stop. She is
wearing a pink knee-length skirt and a
black summer sweater. Her platform
sandals make her look taller, and her hair
is sort of puffed out around the ears,
hanging down to her shoulders. Her
eyeliner is a little heavy, and her lips are
so pink, but I have to admit she looks great,
which I tell her, saying, “Wow, you look
really nice tonight.”
“I like your shoes,” she says in
response, and then we walk for thirty
minutes without saying another word.
We get a booth at the diner, and the
server gives us glasses of water. Tiffany
orders tea, and I say that water is fine for
me. As I read the menu, I worry that I
won't have enough money, which is silly, I
know, because I have two twenties on me
and most of the entrées are under ten
bucks, but I do not know what Tiffany will
order, and maybe she will want dessert,
and then there's the tip.
Nikki taught me to overtip; she says
waitresses work too hard for such a little
bit of money. Nikki knows this because she
was a waitress all through college—when
we were at La Salle—so I always overtip
when I go out to eat now, just to make up
for the times in the past when I fought with
Nikki over a few dollars, saying fifteen
percent was more than enough, because no
one tipped me regardless of whether I did
my job well or not. Now I am a believer in
overtipping, because I am practicing being
kind rather than right—and as I am reading
the diner menu, I think, What if I do not
have enough money left over for a
generous tip?
I am worrying about all of this so much
that I must have missed Tiffany's order,
because suddenly the waitress is saying,
“Sir?”
When I put my menu down, both Tiffany
and the waitress are staring at me, as if
they are concerned. So I say, “Raisin
bran,” because I remember reading that
cereal is only $2.25.
“Milk?”
“How much is milk?”
“Seventy-five cents.”
I figure I can afford it, so I say,
“Please,” and then hand my menu back to
the waitress.
“That's it?”
I nod, and the waitress sighs audibly
before leaving us alone.
“What did you order? I didn't catch it,” I
say to Tiffany, trying to sound polite but
secretly worrying that I will not have
enough money left over for a good tip.
“Just tea,” she says, and then we both
look out the window at the cars in the
parking lot.
When the raisin bran comes, I open the
little single-serving box and pour the
cereal into the bowl the diner provides
free of charge. The milk comes in a
miniature pitcher; I pour it over the brown
flakes and sugared raisins. I push the bowl
to the middle of the table and ask Tiffany if
she would like to help me eat the cereal.
“Are you sure?” she says, and when I nod,
she picks up her spoon and we eat.
When we get the bill, it is for $4.59. I
hand our waitress the two twenties, and the
woman laughs, shakes her head, and says,
“Change?” When I say, “No, thank you”—
thinking Nikki would want me to overtip—the waitress says to Tiffany, “Honey, I had
him all wrong. You two come back real
soon. Okay?” And I can tell the woman is
satisfied with her tip because she sort of
skips her way to the register.
Tiffany doesn't say anything on the walk
home, so I don't either. When we get to her
house, I tell her I had a great time.
“Thanks,” I say, and then offer a
handshake, just so Tiffany will not get the
wrong idea.
She looks at my hand and then up at me,
but she doesn't shake. For a second I think
she is going to start crying again, but
instead she says, “Remember when I said
you could fuck me?”
I nod slowly because I wish I did not
remember it so vividly.
“I don't want you to fuck me, Pat.
Okay?”
“Okay,” I say.
She walks around her parents' house,
and then I amalone again.
When I arrive home, my mom excitedly
asks me what we had for dinner, and when
I tell her raisin bran, she laughs and says,
“Really, what did you have?” I ignore her,
go to my room, and lock the door.
Lying down on my bed, I pick up the
picture of Nikki and tell her all about my
date and how I gave the waitress a nice tip
and how sad Tiffany seems and how much
I can't wait for apart time to end so Nikki
and I can share raisin bran at some diner
and walk through the cool early September
air—and then I amcrying again.
I bury my face and sob into my pillow
so my parents will not hear.
Sing and Spell and Chant
I get up at 4:30 a.m. and start lifting so I
will be done with my workout by kickoff,
and when I finally come up from the
basement, the house smells like crabby
snacks, three-meats pizza, and buffalo
wings. “Smells good,” I say to my momwhile I put on my trash bag, and then  out the door for a ten-mile run.
I am shocked to see that Tiffany is
jogging up and down the block, because
she did not run behind me yesterday, and
also, I am running in the a.m., which is not
my regular time to run.
I jog toward Knight's Park, and when I
look over my shoulder, I see she's
following me again. “How did you know
that I would be running early?” I say, but
she keeps her head down and only follows
silently.
We run our ten miles, and when I return
to my house, Tiffany runs on without saying
anything, as if we had never even eaten
raisin bran together at the diner and nothing
has changed.
I see my brother's silver BMW parked
in front of my parents' house, so I sneak in
the back door, run up the stairs, and jump
into the shower. When I finish showering, I
put on my Hank Baskett jersey—which my
mother has laundered, getting the makeup
off the numbers—and then follow the
sound of the pregame show to the family
room, ready to root on the Birds.
My best friend, Ronnie, is seated next to
my brother, which surprises me. Both of
them are wearing green away jerseys with
the number 18 and the name Stallworth on
the back—Ronnie's is a cheap replica
jersey with iron-on numbers, but Jake's is
authentic. Dad is in his chair, wearing his
number 5 McNabb replica jersey.
When I say, “Go Birds!” my brother
stands, turns to face me, puts both hands in
the air, and says “Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh!” until
Ronnie and my dad also stand, face me,
raise their hands in the air, and say
“Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!” When I raise my
hands in the air and say
“Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh!” all four of us do the
chant, rapidly spelling the letters with our
arms and bodies—“E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S!
EAGLES!”—shooting out two arms and a
leg to make an E, touching our fingertips
high above our heads to make an A, and so
forth.
When we finish, my brother makes his
way around the couch, puts an arm around
my shoulders, and starts to sing the fight
song, which I remember and sing with him.
“Fly, Eagles, fly! On the road to victory!”
 so happy to be singing with my brother
I do not even get mad at him for putting his
arm around me. We walk around the couch
as we sing, “Fight, Eagles, fight! Score a
touchdown, one, two, three!” I look at my
dad, and he does not look away, but only
starts singing with more enthusiasm.
Ronnie throws his armaround me, and then
I am in between my brother and my best
friend. “Hit 'em low. Hit 'em high. And
watch our Eagles fly!” I see that my momhas come in to watch, and she has her hand
over her mouth again like she does
whenever she is about to laugh or cry—her
eyes look happy, so I know she is laughing
under her hands. “Fly, Eagles, fly! On the
road to victory!” And then Ronnie and Jake
remove their arms from my neck so they
can make the letters again with their
bodies. “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!”
We're all red-faced, and my father is
breathing heavy, but everyone is so happy,
and for the first time I really feel like I amhome.
My mom sets up the food on TV trays,
and the game begins. “ not supposed to
drink,” I say when Mom distributes the
bottles of Budweiser, but my father says,
“You can drink beer during Eagles games.”
Mom shrugs and smiles as she hands me a
cold beer. I ask my brother and Ronnie
why they aren't also wearing Baskett
jerseys, since Baskett is the man, and they
tell me the Eagles were able to trade for
Donté Stallworth, and that Donté
Stallworth is now the man. Because I amwearing my Baskett jersey, I insist that
Baskett is the man, to which my father
blows air through his teeth, and my cocky
brother says, “We'll see soon,” which is a
weird thing for him to say, considering he
was the one who gave me the Baskett
jersey in the first place and just two weeks
ago assured me that Baskett was really the
man.
My mother watches the game nervously,
like she always does, because she knows
that if the Eagles lose, my father will be in
a bad mood for an entire week and will
yell at her a lot. Ronnie and Jake trade
facts about different players and check the
screens on their cell phones for updates on
other games and players, because they both
play fantasy football, which is a computer
game that gives you points for picking
players who score touchdowns and gain
yardage. And I glance over at my father
from time to time, making sure he sees me
cheering, because I know he is only
willing to sit in the same room with his
mentally deranged son as long as I am
rooting for the Birds with everything I got.
I have to admit that it feels good to sit in
the same room with my father, even though
he hates me and I still have not forgiven
hima hundred percent for kicking me in the
attic and punching me in the face.
The Houston Texans score first, and
Dad starts cursing pretty loudly, so much
that my mother leaves the room, saying she
will bring us new beers, and Ronnie stares
at the television, pretending he has not
heard what my father has said, which is,
“Play some fucking defense, you piece-ofshit overpaid secondary! This is the
Texans, not the Dallas Cowgirls. The
fucking Texans! Jesus fucking Christ!”
“Relax, Dad,” Jake says. “We got this.”
Mom distributes the beers, and Dad sips
quietly for a while, but when McNabb
throws an interception, my father starts
pointing his finger at the television and
cursing even louder, saying things about
McNabb that would make my friend Danny
go wild, because Danny says only black
people can use the n-word.
Luckily, Donté Stallworth is indeed the
man, because when McNabb starts
throwing to him, the Eagles build a lead
and Dad stops cursing and starts to smile
again.
At halftime, Jake talks my dad into
joining us outside for a catch, and then the
four of us are throwing a football around
on our street. One of our neighbors comes
out with his son, and we let them join in.
The kid is only maybe ten, and he cannot
really reach us from his yard, but since he
is wearing a green jersey, we throw it to
him again and again. He drops every pass,
but we cheer for him anyway; the kid
smiles wildly, and his dad nods
appreciatively at us whenever one of us
catches his eye.
Jake and I are the farthest apart, and we
send each other long passes down the
street and often have to run even farther to
catch the throws. Neither of us drops a
single pass, because we are excellent
athletes.
My dad mostly just stands around
sipping his beer, but we throw him some
easy balls, which he catches with one hand
and then tosses the football underhand to
Ronnie, who is standing closest to him.
Ronnie has a weak arm, but neither Jake
nor I point this out, because he is our
friend and we are all wearing green and
the sun is shining and the Eagles are
winning and we are so full of good hot
food and ice-cold beer it doesn't really
matter that Ronnie's athletic ability is not
equal to ours.
When Mom announces that halftime is
almost over, Jake runs over to the little
kid; my brother puts his hands in the air
and yells “Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh!” until the
kid's dad does the same thing. The little
guy catches on after only a second, puts his
hands in the air, yells “Ahhhhhhhhhhh!”
and then we all do the Eagles chant—spelling the letters out with our arms and
legs—before running back into our
respective family rooms.
Donté Stallworth continues to be the
man in the second half, gaining almost 150
yards and a TD, while Baskett does not
even get a decent ball thrown to him and
fails to record a single catch.  not all
that upset about this, because a funny thing
happens at the end of the game.
When the Eagles win 24–10, we all
stand to sing the Eagles fight song together
like we always do whenever the Birds win
a regular season game. My brother throws
his arms around Ronnie and me and says,
“Come on, Dad.” My dad is a little drunk
from all the beer and so happy about the
Eagles victory—and the fact that McNabb
threw for more than 300 yards—that he
lines up with us and throws his arm around
my shoulders, which shocks me at first, not
because I don't like being touched, but
because my father has not put his armaround me in many years. The weight and
warmth of his arm makes me feel good,
and as we sing the fight song and do the
chant afterward, I catch my mother looking
at us from the kitchen, where she is
washing dishes. She smiles at me even
though she is crying again, and I wonder
why as I sing and spell and chant.
Jake asks Ronnie if he needs a ride
home, and my best friend says, “No,
thanks. Hank Baskett is walking me home.”
“I am?” I say, because Hank Baskett is
the name Ronnie and Jake called me all
throughout the game—so I know he really
means me.
“Yep,” he says, and we grab the football
on the way out.
When we get to Knight's Park, we throw
the football back and forth, standing only
twenty feet away from each other because
Ronnie has a weak arm, and after a few
catches my best friend asks me what I think
about Tiffany.
“Nothing,” I say. “I don't think anything
about her at all. Why?”
“Veronica told me that Tiffany follows
you when you run. True?”
I catch a wobbly pass, say, “Yeah. It's
sort of weird. She knows my schedule and
everything,” and throw a perfect spiral just
over Ronnie's right shoulder so he can
catch it on the run.
He doesn't turn.
He doesn't run.
The ball goes over his head.
Ronnie retrieves the ball, jogs back into
his range, and says, “Tiffany is a little odd.
Do you understand what I mean by odd,
Pat?”
I catch his even more wobbly pass just
before it reaches my right kneecap, and
say, “I guess.” I understand that Tiffany is
different from most girls, but I also
understand what it is like to be separated
from your spouse, which is something
Ronnie does not understand. So I ask,
“Odd how? Odd like me?”
His face drops, and then he says, “No. I
didn't mean … It's just that Tiffany is
seeing a therapist—”
“So amI.”
“I know, but—”
“So seeing a therapist makes me odd?”
“No. Just listen to me for a second. 
trying to be your friend. Okay?”
I look down at the grass as Ronnie
walks over to me. I don't really want to
hear Ronnie talk his way out of this one,
because Ronnie is the only friend I have,
now that I am out of the bad place, and we
have had such a great day, and the Eagles
have won, and my father put his armaround me, and—
“I know Tiffany and you went out to
dinner, which is great. You both could
probably use a friend who understands
loss.”
I don't like the way he collectively uses
the word “loss,” as if I have lost Nikki—as in forever—because I am still riding out
apart time and I have not lost her yet. But I
don't say anything, and let himcontinue.
“Listen,” Ronnie says. “I want to tell
you why Tiffany was fired fromher job.”
“That's none of my business.”
“It is if you are going to have dinners
with her. Listen, you need to know that …”
Ronnie tells me what he believes is the
story of how Tiffany lost her job, but the
way he tells it proves he is biased. He tells
it just like Dr. Timbers would, stating what
he would call “facts,” with no regard for
what was going on in Tiffany's head. He
tells me what coworkers wrote in their
reports, he tells me what her boss told her
parents and what the therapist has since
said to Veronica—who is Tiffany's
designated support buddy and therefore has
weekly phone conversations with Tiffany's
therapist—but he never once tells me what
Tiffany thinks or what is going on in her
heart: the awful feelings, the conflicting
impulses, the needs, the desperation,
everything that makes her different fromRonnie and Veronica, who have each other
and their daughter, Emily, and a good
income and a house and everything else
that keeps people from calling them “odd.”
What amazes me is that Ronnie is telling
me all this in a friendly manner, as if he is
trying to save me from Tiffany's ways, as
if he knows more about these sorts of
things than I do, as if I had not spent the
last few months in a mental institution. He
does not understand Tiffany, and he sure as
hell doesn't understand me, but I do not
hold it against Ronnie, because I ampracticing being kind rather than right, so
Nikki will be able to love me again when
apart time is over.
“So  not telling you to be mean or to
gossip about her—just protect yourself,
okay?” Ronnie says, and I nod. “Well, I
better be getting home to Veronica. Maybe
I'll drop in this week for a lifting session?
Cool?”
I nod again and watch him jog away
from me, the bouncy steps suggesting that
he thinks his mission is accomplished. It is
obvious he was only allowed to watch the
game because Veronica wanted him to talk
to me about Tiffany, probably because
Veronica thought I might take advantage of
her nymphomaniac sister, which makes me
very mad, and before I know it,  ringing
the Websters' doorbell.
“Hello?” Tiffany's mom says to me
when the door opens. She is older-looking,
with gray hair and a heavy sweater-coat,
even though it is only September and she is
inside.
“May I speak with Tiffany?”
“You're Ronnie's friend, right? Pat
Peoples?”
I only nod, because I know Mrs.
Webster knows who I am.
“Do you mind if I ask what you want
with our daughter?”
“Who's there?” I hear Tiffany's father
call fromthe other room.
“It's just Ronnie's friend, Pat Peoples!”
Mrs. Webster yells. To me she says, “So
what do you want with our Tiffany?”
I look down at the football in my hand
and say, “I want to have a catch. It's a
beautiful afternoon. Maybe she would like
to get some fresh air in the park?”
“Just a catch?” Mrs. Webster says.
I hold up my wedding ring to prove I do
not want to have sex with her daughter, and
say, “Listen,  married. I just want to be
Tiffany's friend, okay?”
Mrs. Webster looks a little surprised by
my answer, which is odd because I was
sure that was the answer she wanted to
hear. But after a moment she says, “Go
around back and knock on the door.”
So I knock on the back door, but no one
answers.
I knock three more times and then leave.
 halfway through the park when I
hear a swishy sound behind me. When I
turn around, Tiffany is speed walking
toward me, wearing a pink tracksuit made
froma material that swishes when one pant
leg rubs against the other. When she is
about five feet away, I throw her a light,
girly pass, but she steps aside and the
football falls to the ground.
“What do you want?” she says.
“Want to have a catch?”
“I hate football. I told you this, no?”
Since she doesn't want to have a catch, I
decide I'll just ask her my question: “Why
do you follow me when I run?”
“Honestly?”
“Yeah,” I say.
She squints her eyes and makes her face
look mean. “scouting you.”
“What?”
“I said scouting you.”
“Why?”
“To see if you are fit enough.”
“Fit enough for what?”
But instead of answering my question,
she says, “ also scouting your work
ethic, your endurance, the way you deal
with mental strain, your ability to
persevere when you are unsure of what is
happening around you, and—”
“Why?”
“I can't tell you yet,” she says.
“Why not?”
“Because I haven't finished scouting
you.”
When she walks away, I follow her past
the pond, over the footbridge, and out of
the park. But neither of us speaks again.
She leads me to Haddon Avenue, and
we walk by the new stores and swanky
restaurants, passing lots of other
pedestrians, kids on skateboards, and men
who raise their fists in the air and say, “Go
Eagles!” when they see my Hank Baskett
jersey.
Tiffany turns off Haddon Avenue and
weaves through residential blocks until we
are in front of my parents' house, where
she stops, looks at me, and—after almost
an hour of silence—says, “Did your teamwin?”
I nod. “Twenty-four to ten.”
“Lucky you,” Tiffany says, and then
walks away.
The Best Therapist in the Entire
World
The Monday morning after the Eagles beat
the Texans, a funny thing happens. 
doing some initial stretching in the
basement, when my father comes down for
the first time since I have been home.
“Pat?” he says.
I stop stretching, stand up, and face him.
He's on the last step, stopped as if he is
afraid to set a foot down on my territory.
“Dad?”
“You certainly got a lot of equipment
down here.”
I don't say anything, because I know he
is probably mad at my mother for buying
me a gym.
“There's pretty good Eagles coverage in
the papers today,” he says, and then
extends the sports sections of the CourierPost and The Philadelphia Inquirer to me.
“I got up early and finished reading both so
that you could keep up with the team. By
your comments yesterday during the game,
I could tell you don't know all of the
players, and I thought maybe you'd like to
follow along this season now that you're
home and—well, I'll just leave themon the
top step fromnow on.”
 too shocked to speak or move,
because my father has taken the sports
pages with him to work ever since Jake
and I were little kids. Jake used to fight
with Dad all the time about this, asking himto at least bring home the sports sections
after work so we could read the articles
after we finished our homework. But Dad
always left with the papers before we
were out of bed, and he never brought the
sports sections home for us ever, saying he
forgot or lost them at work. Jake finally
subscribed himself when he got his first
job stocking shelves at the local Big
Foods, and this was when we started
reading the daily sports pages together
every morning before school. He was
twelve; I was thirteen.
I do three hundred sit-ups on the
Stomach Master 6000 before I allow
myself to pick up the paper from the
bottom step. As my stomach muscles
crunch and burn, I worry that my father is
only playing a mean trick on me and that
the papers will be the entertainment or
food sections, but when I finish the sit-ups
and make my way to the steps, I see that
Dad really did leave me the sports sections
of both papers.
When it is time for me to take my a.m.
pills, I find my mom in the kitchen cooking
eggs. My plate is set at the breakfast bar,
and my five morning pills are laid out in a
line on a napkin.
“Look,” I say, and hold up what my
father gave me.
“Sports pages, eh?” Mom says over the
sound of frying eggs.
“Yeah.” I sit down and pop all five pills
into my mouth, trying to decide how many I
will swallow today. “But why?”
Mom scrapes the eggs from the pan and
onto my plate with her spatula. She smiles
and says, “Your father is trying, Pat. But I
wouldn't ask too many questions if I were
you. Take what he gives you and be happy
—that's what we do, right?”
She smiles at me hopefully, and right
then I decide to swallow all five pills, so I
take a sip of water and do just that.
Every day that week, I hear the basement
door open and close, and when I check the
top step, I find the sports sections, which I
read from cover to cover while I eat
breakfast with Mom.
The big news is the upcoming Giants
game, which everyone thinks will be the
key to winning the NFC East, especially
since the Giants have already lost to the
Indianapolis Colts in game one. A loss
will put them at 0–2 and the Eagles at 2–0.
The game is being hyped as a big one, and
I have a ticket, thanks to Jake, which makes
me really excited.
Each night, I wait for my dad to come
home from work, hoping he might want to
talk about the upcoming game with me—so
I can use the current players' names and
prove to him that I am a real fan again—but he always takes his dinner into his
study and locks the door. A few times I
actually go to his study and raise a fist to
knock, but I chicken out every night. Momsays, “Give himtime.”
Sitting in the brown recliner, I talk about
my dad with Dr. Cliff during my Friday
appointment. I tell him how Dad is leaving
me the sports sections now, and how I
know this is a huge deal for Dad, but I
wish he would talk to me more. Cliff
listens, but says little about my father.
Instead he keeps bringing up Tiffany,
which is sort of annoying because she has
only been following me when I run, and
that's about it.
“Your mother says you are going to the
beach with Tiffany tomorrow,” Cliff says,
and then smiles like men sometimes do
when they are talking about women and
sex.
“ going with Ronnie and Veronica
and baby Emily too. The whole point is to
take Emily to the beach because she did
not get to go much this summer and it will
be cold soon. Little kids love the beach,
Cliff.”
“Are you excited about going?”
“Sure. I guess. I mean, I'll have to get up
super early to get a good workout in and
finish when we come home, but—”
“What about seeing Tiffany in a bathing
suit?”
I blink several times before I grasp what
he has said to me.
“You said before that she has a nice
body,” Cliff adds. “Are you looking
forward to seeing it? Maybe she will wear
a bikini. What do you think?”
I feel mad for a second—because my
therapist is sort of being disrespectful—but then I realize Cliff is testing my morals
again, making sure I am fit to be out of the
mental institution, so I smile, nod, and say,
“Cliff, married, remember?”
He nods back wisely and winks, making
me feel like I passed the test.
We talk a little more about how I made
it through a whole week without having an
episode, which is evidence that the drugs
are working, according to Cliff—because
he doesn't know I spit at least half of the
pills into the toilet—and when it is time
for me to go, Cliff says, “I just have one
more thing to say to you.”
“What?”
He shocks me by jumping to his feet,
throwing both hands in the air, and yelling
“Ahhhhhhhhhhhhhh!”
So I jump to my feet, throw both hands
in the air, and yell “Ahhhhhhhhhhh!” too.
“E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!” we
chant in unison, spelling the letters with
our arms and legs, and suddenly I am so
happy.
Cliff predicts a 21–14 Eagles victory as
he walks me out of his office, and after I
agree with his prognosis, we enter the
waiting room and my mother says, “Were
you two just doing the Eagles chant?”
Cliff raises his eyebrows and shrugs his
shoulders at my mother, but when he turns
to walk back into his office, he begins
whistling “Fly, Eagles, Fly,” at which
point I know that I am seeing the best
therapist in the entire world.
On the drive home, my mother asks me if
Cliff and I talked about anything other than
Eagles football during the therapy session,
and instead of answering her question, I
say, “Do you think that Dad will start
talking to me at night if the Eagles beat the
Giants?”
Mom frowns, grips the steering wheel a
little harder. “The sad reality is he might,
Pat. He really might,” she says, and I start
to get my hopes up.
Tiffany's Head Floating over the
Waves
When Ronnie picks me up in his minivan—which has three rows of seats—Tiffany is
already buckled in next to Emily's car seat,
so I climb into the very back, carrying the
football and the bag my mother packed me,
which contains a towel, a change of
clothes, and a bagged lunch, even though I
told Mom that Ronnie was bringing
hoagies fromthe local deli.
Of course my mother feels the need to
stand on the front porch and wave, as if I
were five years old. Veronica, who is
riding in the front passenger's seat, leans
over Ronnie and yells to my mother.
“Thanks for the wine and flowers!” My
mother takes this as an invitation to walk to
the minivan and have a conversation.
“How do you like the outfit I bought for
Pat?” my mom says when she reaches
Ronnie's window. She ducks down and
takes a long look at Tiffany, but Tiffany has
already turned her head away from my
mother and is looking out the window at
the house across the street.
The outfit I am wearing is ridiculous: a
bright orange polo shirt, bright green
swimming shorts, and flip-flops. I did not
want to wear any of this, but I knew
Veronica was likely to make a fuss if I
wore one of my cutoff T-shirts and a pair
of workout shorts. Since Veronica and my
mother have pretty much the same taste, I
allowed my mother to dress me—plus, it
makes Momreally happy.
“He looks great, Mrs. Peoples,”
Veronica says, and Ronnie nods in
agreement.
“Hello, Tiffany,” my mother says,
sticking her head into the car a little more,
but Tiffany ignores her.
“Tiffany?” Veronica says, but Tiffany
continues to stare out the window.
“Have you met Emily yet?” Ronnie asks,
and then he is out of the car and Emily is
unbuckled from her car seat and placed in
my mother's arms. Mom's voice gets all
funny as she talks to Emily, and standing
next to Mom, Veronica and Ronnie are all
smiles.
This goes on for a few minutes, until
Tiffany turns her head and says, “I thought
we were going to the beach today.”
“Sorry, Mrs. Peoples,” Veronica says.
“My sister can be a little blunt sometimes,
but we probably should get going so we
can have lunch on the beach.”
My mother quickly nods and says,
“Have a good time, Pat,” as Ronnie
buckles Emily back into her car seat.
Again I feel like I amfive.
On the way to the shore, Ronnie and
Veronica talk to Tiffany and me the same
way they talk to Emily—as if they are not
really expecting a response, saying things
that really don't need to be said at all.
“Can't wait to get on the beach.” “We're
going to have such a good time.” “What
should we do first—swim, walk the beach,
or throw the football?” “Such a nice day.”
“Are you guys having fun?” “Can't wait to
eat those hoagies!”
After twenty minutes of non-talk, Tiffany
says, “Can we please have some quiet
time?” and we ride the rest of the way
listening to the yelling noises Emily makes
—what her parents claimis singing.
We drive through Ocean City and over a
bridge to a beach I do not know. “Little
less crowded down here,” Ronnie
explains.
When we park, Emily is put into what
looks like a cross between a stroller and a
4×4 vehicle, which Veronica pushes.
Tiffany carries the umbrella. Ronnie and I
carry the cooler, each of us grabbing a
handle. We take a wooden walkway over a
sand dune covered with sea oats and find
that we have the beach all to ourselves.
Not another person anywhere to be seen.
After a brief discussion about whether
the tide is coming in or out, Veronica picks
a dry patch and tries to spread out the
blanket while Ronnie begins digging the
umbrella spike into the sand. But there is a
breeze, and Veronica has some trouble, as
the wind keeps folding the blanket over.
If it were anyone but Veronica, I would
grab a corner and help, but I do not want to
get yelled at, so I wait for instructions
before I do anything. Tiffany does the
same, but Veronica fails to ask for help.
Maybe some sand gets kicked up or
something, because Emily starts screaming
and rubbing her eyes.
“Nice,” Tiffany says.
Veronica immediately attends to Emily,
telling her to blink, demonstrating what to
do, but Emily only screams even louder.
“I can't take a crying baby right now,”
Tiffany adds. “Make her stop crying.
Veronica, would you please make her—”
“Remember what Dr. Lily said? What
did we talk about this morning?” Veronica
says over her shoulder, shooting Tiffany a
serious look before turning her attention
back to Emily.
“So now we're talking about my
therapist in front of Pat? You fucking
bitch,” Tiffany says, shaking her head, and
then she is walking away fromus quickly.
“Christ,” Veronica says. “Ronnie, can
you handle Emily?”
Ronnie nods solemnly, and then
Veronica is running after Tiffany, saying,
“Tiff? Come back. Come on. sorry. really sorry.”
Ronnie flushes Emily's eyes with
bottled water, and after ten minutes or so,
she stops crying. We get the blanket spread
out under the shade of the umbrella,
weighting the corners down with the
cooler, our flip-flops and sandals, and
Emily's super stroller—but Veronica and
Tiffany do not come back.
After every inch of Emily's skin is
coated with sunscreen, Ronnie and I play
with her down at the water's edge. She
likes running after the waves as they
recede. She likes digging in the sand, and
we have to watch to make sure she does
not eat the sand, which seems weird to me,
because why would anyone want to eat
sand? Ronnie carries Emily out into the
ocean, and we all float over the waves for
a time.
I ask if we should be worried about
Veronica and Tiffany, and Ronnie says,
“No. They're just having a therapy session
somewhere on the beach. They'll be back
soon.”
I don't like the way he emphasizes the
word “therapy,” as if therapy were some
sort of ridiculous idea, but I don't say
anything.
After we dry off, we all lie down on the
blanket—Ronnie and Emily in the shade,
and me in the sun. I doze off pretty quickly.
When I open my eyes, Ronnie's face is
next to mine; he's sleeping. I feel a tap on
my shoulder, and when I roll over, I see
that Emily has walked around the blanket.
She smiles at me and says, “Pap.”
“Let Daddy sleep,” I whisper, and then
pick her up and carry her down to the
water.
For a while we sit and dig a small hole
in the wet sand with our hands, but then
Emily stands and chases the foam of a
receding wave, laughing and pointing.
“Want to go swimming?” I ask her, and
she nods once, so I scoop her up into my
arms and begin to wade out into the water.
The surf has picked up some and the
waves have a lot more height, so I quickly
walk past the breakers to where the water
is up to my chest. Emily and I begin to float
over the swells. As the waves grow in
size, I have to jump and kick really hard to
keep both of our heads above water, but
Emily loves it and begins squealing and
laughing and clapping her hands every time
we float up. This goes on for a good ten
minutes, and I am so happy; I kiss her
chubby cheeks over and over. Something
about Emily makes me want to float over
waves with her for the rest of my life, and I
decide that when apart time is done, I will
make a daughter with Nikki ASAP,
because nothing has made me even close to
this happy since apart time began.
The swells get even bigger. I lift Emily
up and put her on my shoulders so she will
not have her face splashed by the waves,
and her squeals seem to suggest that she
likes being so high in the air.
We float up.
We float down.
We are so happy.
We are so, so happy.
But then I hear someone screaming.
“Pat! Pat! Paaaaaaat!”
I turn and see that Veronica is running
very quickly down the beach, with Tiffany
trailing far behind. I worry that maybe
something is wrong, so I start to make my
way in.
The waves are pretty big now, and I
have to take Emily down from my
shoulders and hold her against my chest to
ensure her safety, but soon we are able to
negotiate our way back to Veronica, who
is now running into the surf.
When I get closer, Veronica seems to be
very upset. Emily starts to scream and
reach for her mother.
“What the hell are you doing?” Veronica
says to me when I hand Emily over to her.
“just swimming with Emily,” I say.
Veronica's screaming must have woken
up Ronnie, because he has run down to
meet us. “What happened?”
“You let Pat take Emily out into the
ocean?” Veronica says, and by the way she
says my name, it's obvious she does not
want Emily to be left alone with me,
because she thinks I am going to hurt Emily
somehow, which is unfair—especially
since Emily only started crying when she
heard Veronica screaming, so really
Veronica was the one who upset her own
daughter.
“What did you do to her?” Ronnie says
to me.
“Nothing,” I say. “We were only
swimming.”
“What were you doing?” Veronica says
to Ronnie.
“I must of fallen asleep, and—”
“Jesus Christ, Ronnie. You left Emily
alone with him?”
The way Veronica says “him,” Emily
crying, Ronnie accusing me of doing
something awful to his daughter, the sun
burning my bare chest and back, Tiffany
watching now—suddenly I feel as though I
might explode. I definitely feel an episode
coming on, so before I blow up, I do the
only thing I can think of: I start running
down the beach away from Veronica and
Ronnie and Emily and the crying and the
accusations. I run as fast as I can, and
suddenly I realize that now I am crying,
probably because I was only swimming
with Emily and it felt so right and I was
trying to be good and thought I was being
good and I let my best friend down and
Veronica screamed at me and it's not fair
because I have been trying so hard and
how long can this fucking movie last and
how much more do I need to improve
myself and—
Tiffany passes me.
She runs by me like a blur.
Suddenly, only one thing matters: I need
to pass her.
I start running faster and catch up to her,
but she picks up her speed and we run side
by side for a time until I find that gear
women do not have, and I blow by her and
maintain my man speed for a minute or so
before I slow down and allow her to catch
up with me. We jog side by side on the
beach for a long time, neither of us saying
a word.
What feels like an hour passes before
we turn around, and what feels like another
hour passes before we see Ronnie and
Veronica's umbrella, but before we reach
them, Tiffany veers into the ocean.
I follow her—running directly into the
waves—and the salt water feels so cool on
my skin after a long run. Soon we are in
too deep to stand, and Tiffany's head is
floating over the waves, which have
calmed down considerably. Her face is a
little tan and her hair hangs dark and wet
and natural and I see freckles on her nose
that were not there earlier that morning—
so I swimover to her.
A wave lifts me up, and when I come
down over the other side, I am surprised
that our faces are very close. For a second
Tiffany reminds me so much of Nikki, I
worry we might accidentally kiss, but
Tiffany swims a few feet away from me
before this happens, and I amthankful.
Her toes come up out of the water, and
she begins to float, facing the horizon.
I lean back, stare at the line where sky
meets water, allow my toes to rise, and
float next to Tiffany for a long time, neither
of us saying anything.
When we walk back to the blanket,
Emily is sleeping with a fist in her mouth,
and Veronica and Ronnie are lying down,
holding hands in the shade. When we stand
over them, they squint and smile at us like
nothing bad had happened earlier.
“How was your run?” Ronnie asks.
“We want to go home now,” Tiffany
says.
“Why?” Ronnie says, sitting up. “We
haven't even eaten our lunch. Pat, you
really want to go home?”
Veronica says nothing.
I look up at the sky. No clouds at all.
Nothing but blue. “Yeah, I do,” I tell him,
and then we are in the minivan driving
back to Collingswood.
A Hive Full of Green Bees
“Ahhhhhhhhh!”
I sit up, my heart pounding. When my
eyes focus, I see my dad standing at my
bedside with his hands above his head;
he's wearing his number 5 McNabb jersey.
“Ahhhhhhhhhhhhh!” he continues to
scream, until I get out of bed, raise my
hands, and say “Ahhhhhhhhhh!”
We do the chant, spelling the letters with
our arms and legs. “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S!
EAGLES!” When we finish, instead of
saying good morning or anything else, my
father simply jogs out of my room.
I look at the clock, and it reads 5:59
a.m. The game starts at one o'clock. I
promised to join Jake's tailgate party by
ten, which gives me two hours to lift and
an hour to run—so I lift, and Tiffany is
outside at 8:00 a.m. just like she said she
would be.
We do a short run—maybe only six or
seven miles.
After a shower, I put on my Baskett
jersey and ask my mom for a ride to the
PATCO station, but she says, “Your driver
is waiting for you outside.” Mom kisses
me on the cheek and hands me some
money. “Have fun, and don't let your
brother drink too much.”
Outside, I see Dad in his sedan; the
engine is running. I get into the car and say,
“Dad, are you going to the game?”
“I wish I could,” he says, and then we
back out of the driveway.
The truth is that my father is still serving
a self-imposed ban and is therefore not
allowed to attend Eagles games. In the
early eighties, Dad got into a fight with a
Dallas Cowboys fan who dared to sit in
the 700 Level, which were the cheap seats
at the Vet, where the die-hard Eagles fans
sat.
The story I heard from my sincedeceased uncle was this:
When the Cowboys scored a touchdown,
this Dallas fan jumped up and began
cheering real loudly, so people started
throwing beers and hot dogs at him. The
only problem was that my dad was sitting
in the row in front of this Dallas fan, so the
beer and mustard and food rained down on
Dad too.
Apparently, Dad lost it, attacked the
Dallas fan, and beat him within an inch of
his life. My father was actually arrested,
convicted of aggravated assault, and
incarcerated for three months. If my uncle
hadn't made the mortgage payments, we
would have lost the house. Dad did lose
his season ticket and has not been to an
Eagles game since.
Jake says we could get Dad in, since no
one actually checks IDs at the gate, but
Dad won't go back, saying, “As long as
they let the opposing fans in our house, I
can't trust myself.”
This is sort of funny, because twentyfive years after Dad beat the hell out of that
Dallas fan, he is just a fat old man who is
not likely to beat up another fat old man,
let alone a rowdy Dallas fan with the guts
to wear a Cowboys jersey to an Eagles
game. Although my father did hit me pretty
hard in the attic just a few weeks ago—so
maybe he is wise to stay away from the
games.
We drive over the hospital-green Walt
Whitman Bridge, and he talks about how
this just might be an important day in
Eagles history, especially since the Giants
won both games last year. “Revenge!” he
keeps yelling indiscriminately. He also
tells me I have to cheer real loudly so Eli
Manning—who I know (from reading the
sports pages) is the Giants' QB—will not
be able to talk or hear during the huddles.
“Scream your goddamn lungs out, because
you're the twelfth man!” Dad says. The
way he talks at me—never really pausing
long enough for me to say any-thing—makes him sound crazy, I know, even
though most people think I am the crazy
person in the family.
When we are stopped, waiting in line to
pay the bridge toll, Dad quits his Eagles
rant long enough to say, “It's good that you
are going to the games with Jake again.
Your brother's missed you a lot. You do
realize that, right? You need to make time
for family no matter what happens in your
life, because Jake and your mother need
you.”
This is a pretty ironic thing for him to
say, especially since he has hardly said
anything to me since I have been home and
never really spends any time with me or
my mother or Jake at all, but I am glad my
father is finally talking to me. All the time I
have ever spent with Jake or him has
always revolved around sports—mostly
Eagles—and I know this is all he can
really afford emotionally, so I take it, and
say, “I wish you were going to the game,
Dad.”
“Me too,” he says, and then hands the
toll collector a five.
After taking the first off-ramp, he
deposits me about ten blocks away fromthe new stadium so he can turn around and
avoid traffic. “You're on your own coming
home,” he says as I get out. “ not
driving back into this zoo.”
I thank him for the ride, and just before I
shut the door, he raises his hands in the car
and yells “Ahhhhhhhhh!” so I raise my
hands and yell “Ahhhhhhhh!” A group of
men drinking beers out of a nearby car
trunk hear us, so they raise their hands and
yell “Ahhhhhhhhhh!” Men united by a team,
we all do the Eagles chant together. My
chest feels so warm, and I remember how
much fun it is to be in South Philly on game
day.
As I walk toward the west Lincoln
Financial Field parking lot—following the
directions my brother gave me on the
phone the night before—so many people
are wearing Eagles jerseys. Everywhere
green. People are grilling, drinking beer
from plastic cups, throwing footballs,
listening to the WIP 610 pregame show on
AM radio, and as I walk past, they all
high-five me, throw me footballs, and yell,
“Go Birds!” just because I am wearing an
Eagles jersey. I see young boys with their
fathers. Old guys with their grown sons.
Men yelling and singing and smiling as if
they were boys again. And I realize I have
missed this a lot.
Even though I do not want to, I look for
the Vet and only find a parking lot. There's
a new Phillies ballpark too, called
Citizens Bank Park. By the entrance
ripples a huge banner of some new player
named Ryan Howard. All of this seems to
suggest that Jake and Dad weren't lying
when they said the Vet was demolished. I
try not to think about the dates they
mentioned, and I focus on enjoying the
game and spending time with my brother.
I find the right parking lot and begin to
look for the green tent with the black
Eagles flag flying from the top. The
parking lot is full—tents and grills and
parties everywhere—but after ten minutes
or so, I spot my brother.
Jake's in his number 99 Jerome Brown
memorial jersey. (Jerome Brown was the
two-time Pro Bowler defensive tackle who
was killed in a car crash back in 1992.)
My brother is drinking beer from a green
cup, standing next to our friend Scott, who
is manning the grill. Jake looks happy, and
for a second I simply enjoy watching himsmile as he throws an arm around Scott,
whom I haven't seen since the last time I
was in South Philly. Jake's face is red, and
he looks a little drunk already, but he has
always been a happy drunk, so I do not
worry. Like my father, nothing makes Jake
happier than Eagles game day.
When Jake sees me, he yells, “Hank
Baskett's tailgating with us!” and then runs
over to give me a high five and a chest
bump.
“What's up, dude?” Scott says to me as
we too exchange high fives. The big smile
on his face suggests that he is happy to see
me. “Man, you really are huge. What have
you been lifting—cars?” I smile proudly as
he punches my arm, like guys do when they
are buddies. “It's been years—I mean, um
—how many months has it been?” He and
my brother exchange a glance that I do not
miss, but before I can say anything, Scott
yells, “Hey, all you fat-asses in the tent! I
wanna introduce you to my boy—Jake's
brother, Pat.”
The tent is the size of a small house. I
walk through the slit on one side, and a
huge flat-screen television is set up on
milk crates stacked two by four. Five
really fat guys are seated in folding chairs,
watching the pregame show—all of themin Eagles jerseys. Scott rattles off the
names. After he says mine, the men nod
and wave and then go back to watching the
pregame show. All of them have handheld
personal organizers, and their eyes are
rapidly moving back and forth between the
small screens in their hands and the large
screen at the far side of the tent. Almost all
have earpieces in, which I guess are
connected to cellular phones.
As we exit the tent, Scott says, “Don't
mind them. They're all trying to get lastminute info. They'll be a little more
friendly after they've placed their bets.”
“Who are they?” I ask.
“Guys from my work.  a computer
tech now for Digital Cross Health. We do
websites for family doctors.”
“How are they watching television out
here in the parking lot?” I ask.
My brother waves me around to the back
of the tent, points to a small engine in a
square of metal, and says, “Gas-powered
generator.” He points to the top of the tent,
where a small gray plate is perched, and
says, “Satellite dish.”
“What do they do with all this gear
when they go into the game?” I ask.
“Oh,” Scott says with a laugh. “They
don't have tickets.”
Jake pours a Yuengling Lager into a
plastic cup and hands it to me, and I notice
three coolers loaded with beer cans and
bottles, probably four or five cases. I know
the plastic cup is to keep away the police,
who can arrest you for having an open beer
can in your hand but not for holding a
plastic cup. The bag of empties just outside
the tent suggests that Jake and Scott are
way ahead of me.
As Scott finishes grilling breakfast—thick sausages and eggs scrambled in a pan
he has placed over the gas flames—he
does not ask me many questions about what
I have been up to, which I appreciate. sure my brother has already told Scott all
about my time in the bad place and my
separation from Nikki, but I still
appreciate Scott's allowing me to reenter
the world of Eagles football without an
interrogation.
Scott tells me about his life, and it turns
out that while I was in the bad place, he
married someone named Willow, and they
actually now have three-year-old twins
named Tami and Jeri-Lyn. Scott shows me
the picture he keeps in his wallet, and the
girls are dressed alike in little pink
ballerina outfits—tutus, tights—their hands
stretched up over silver tiaras, pointing
toward heaven. “My tiny dancers. We live
on the Pennsylvania side now.
Havertown,” Scott says as he loads a half
dozen sausages onto the top rack of the
barbecue, where they will keep warmwhile the next batch cooks. I think about
Emily and me floating over the waves only
the day before, and again I promise myself
I'll get busy making my own daughter just
as soon as apart time is over.
I try not to do the math in my head, but I
can't help it. If he has twins who are three
years old and he was married sometime
after I last saw him—but before his wife
got pregnant—it must mean that I have not
seen Scott for at least four years. Now
maybe he knocked up his girlfriend and
then married her, but of course, I can't ask
that. Since his daughters are three, the math
indicates he and I have not talked for at
least three or four years.
My last memory of Scott is at the Vet. I
had sold my season ticket to Scott's
brother Chris a season or two before, but
Chris often went away on business
conferences and allowed me to buy my
seat back for the few home games played
when he was out of town. I came up fromBaltimore to see the Eagles play Dallas; I
don't remember who won or what the
score was. But I remember sitting in
between Scott and Jake—up in the 700
Level—when Dallas scored a rushing
touchdown. Some clown behind us stood
up and began cheering as he unzipped his
jacket, revealing a throwback Tony Dorsett
jersey. Everyone in our section started
booing and throwing food at this Dallas
fan, who smiled and smiled.
Jake was so drunk he could hardly
stand, but he charged after this guy,
climbing up over three rows of people.
The sober Dallas fan shoved Jake away
easily, but when Jake fell back into the
arms of drunken Eagles fans, a cry went
up, and the Tony Dorsett jersey was
forcibly removed from the visiting fan's
back and ripped into many pieces before
security arrived and threw out a dozen
people.
Jake was not thrown out of the game.
Scott and I were able to get Jake up and
away from the mayhem, and when security
arrived, we were in the men's room
splashing water onto Jake's face, trying to
sober himup.
In my mind, this happened last year,
maybe eleven months ago. But I know if I
bring up this incident now as we are
grilling in front of the Linc, I will be told
that the memory occurred more than three
or even four years ago, so I do not bring it
up, even though I want to, because I know
Jake's and Scott's responses will help me
figure out what the rest of the world
believes about time. And also, not
knowing what the rest of the world
believes happened between then and now
is terrifying. It's better not to think too
much about this.
“Drink some beers,” Jake says to me.
“Smile. It's game day!”
So I start drinking, even though the little
orange bottles that my pills come in have
stickers forbidding me to drink alcohol.
After the fat guys in the tent are fed, we
eat off paper plates, and then Scott, Jake,
and I begin throwing the football around.
In the parking lot people are
everywhere, not just tailgating, but
roaming. Guys selling stolen or homemade
T-shirts, moms parading around little girls
in cheerleading outfits who will do a cheer
if you donate a dollar to their local
cheerleading booster club, crazy bums
willing to tell you off-color jokes for free
food and beer, strippers in short pants and
satin jackets handing out free passes to the
local gentlemen's clubs, packs of little
kids in pads and helmets collecting money
for their peewee football teams, college
kids handing out free samples of new
sodas or sports drinks or candy or junk
food, and of course the seventy thousand
other drunken Eagles fans just like us.
Basically, it's a green football carnival.
By the time we decide to have a catch,
I've had two or three beers, and I'd be
willing to bet Jake and Scott have each had
at least ten, so our passes are not all that
accurate. We hit parked cars, knock over a
few tables of food, beam one or two guys
in the back, but no one cares, because we
are Eagles fans in Eagles jerseys who are
ready and willing to cheer on the Birds.
Every so often, other men will jump in
front of one of us and intercept a pass or
two, but they always give back the ball
with a laugh and a smile.
I like throwing the football with Jake
and Scott because it makes me feel like a
boy, and when I was a boy, I was the
person Nikki fell in love with.
But then something bad happens.
Jake sees him first, points, and says,
“Hey, look at the asshole.” I turn my head
and see a big man in a Giants jersey,
maybe forty yards away from our tent. He
is wearing a red, white, and blue hard hat,
and the worst part is that he has a little boy
with him who is also wearing a Giants
jersey. The guy walks over to a group of
Eagles fans who give him a hard time at
first but eventually hand hima beer.
Suddenly my brother is walking toward
this Giants fan, so Scott and I follow. My
brother starts chanting as he walks, “Ass—hole! Ass—hole! Ass—hole!” With every
syllable, he throws his index finger at the
hard hat. Scott is doing the same thing, and
before I know it, we are surrounded by
twenty or so men in Eagles jerseys who
are also chanting and pointing. I have to
admit it feels sort of thrilling to be part of
this mob—united in our hatred of the
opposing team's fans.
When we reach the Giants fan, his
friends—all Eagles fans—laugh, and their
faces seemto say, “We told you this would
happen.” But instead of acting remorseful,
the Giants fan puts his hands up in the air,
as if he has just performed a magic trick or
something; he smiles widely and nods his
head like he is enjoying being called an
asshole. He even puts his hand to his ear,
as if to say, “I can't hear you.” The kid
with him, who has the same pale skin
coloring and flat nose—probably his son
—looks terrified. The little guy's jersey
hangs down to his knees, and as the “ass—hole” chant intensifies, the kid holds on to
his father's leg and tries to hide behind the
big man's thigh.
My brother transitions the crowd into a
“Giants suck” chant, and more Eagles fans
come to join in. We now are at least fifty
strong. And this is when the little kid
breaks into tears, sobbing. When we
Eagles fans see that the kid is really upset,
the mob chuckles and respectfully
disperses.
Jake and Scott are laughing as we walk
back to our tent, but I don't feel so great. I
wish we did not make that little kid cry. I
know the Giants fan was stupid to wear a
Giants jersey to an Eagles game, and it is
really his own fault that his son was made
to cry, but I also know that what we did
was unkind, and this is the sort of behavior
Nikki hates, what I amtrying—
I feel his hands explode through my
back, and I stumble forward and almost
fall down. When I turn around, I see the big
Giants fan. He is no longer wearing his
hard hat; his son is not with him.
“You like making little kids cry?” he
says to me.
 too shocked to speak. There were at
least fifty men chanting, but he has singled
out me. Why? I wasn't even chanting. I
wasn't even pointing. I want to tell himthis, but my mouth won't work, so I just
stand there shaking my head.
“If you don't want a problem, don't
wear a Giants jersey to an Eagles game,”
Scott says.
“It's just bad parenting to bring your son
down here dressed like that,” Jake adds.
The mob quickly forms again. A circle
of green uniforms surrounds us now, and I
think this Giants fan must be crazy. One of
his friends has come to talk him down. The
friend's a small man with long hair and a
mustache—and he's wearing an Eagles
shirt. “Come on, Steve. Let's go. They
didn't mean anything. It was just a joke.”
“What the fuck is your problem?” Steve
says, and then shoves me again, his hands
exploding through my chest.
At this point the Eagles fans begin
chanting, “Ass—hole! Ass—hole! Ass—
hole!”
Steve is staring into my eyes, gritting his
teeth so the tendons in his neck bulge like
ropes. He also lifts weights. His arms look
even bigger than mine, and he is taller than
me by an inch or two.
I look to Jake for help, and I can see that
he looks a little worried himself.
Jake steps in front of me, puts his hands
up to suggest that he means no harm, but
before he can say anything, the Giants fan
grabs my brother's Jerome Brown
memorial jersey and throws Jake to the
ground.
I see him hit the concrete—my brother's
hands skidding along the blacktop—and
then blood is dripping from his fingers and
Jake's eyes look dazed and scared.
My brother is hurt.
My brother is hurt.
MY BROTHER IS HURT.
I explode.
The bad feeling in my stomach rockets
up through my chest and into my hands—and before I can stop myself,  moving
forward like a Mack truck. I catch Steve's
cheek with a left, and then my right
connects with the south side of his chin,
lifting him off the ground. I watch him float
through the air as if he were allowing his
body to fall backward into a pool. His
back hits the concrete, his feet and hands
twitch once, and then he's not moving, the
crowd is silent, and I begin to feel so
awful—so guilty.
Someone yells, “Call an ambulance!”
Another yells, “Tell 'em to bring a blueand-red body bag!”
“ sorry,” I whisper, because I find it
hard to speak. “so sorry.”
And then I amrunning again.
I weave through the crowds of people,
across streets, around cars, and through
horns blaring and cursing drivers
screaming at me. I feel a bubbly feeling in
my midsection, and then I am puking my
guts out onto the sidewalk—eggs, sausage,
beer—and so many people are yelling at
me, calling me a drunk, saying that  an
asshole; and then  running again as fast
as I can, down the street away from the
stadiums.
When I feel as though I am going to
throw up again, I stop and realize alone—no more Eagles fans anywhere. A
chain-link fence, beyond it a warehouse
that looks abandoned.
I vomit again.
On the sidewalk, outside of the puddle I
am making, pieces of broken glass glint
and sparkle in the sun.
I cry.
I feel awful.
I realize that I have once again failed to
be kind; that I lost control in a big way;
that I seriously injured another person, and
therefore  never going to get Nikki back
now. Apart time is going to last forever
because my wife is a pacifist who would
never want me to hit anyone under any
circumstance, and both God and Jesus
were obviously rooting for me to turn the
other cheek, so I know I really shouldn't
have hit that Giants fan, and now crying again because  such a fucking
waste—such a fucking non-person.
I walk another half block, my chest
heaving wildly, and then I stop.
“Dear God,” I pray. “Please don't send
me back to the bad place. Please!”
I look up at the sky.
I see a cloud passing just under the sun.
The top is all electric white.
I remind myself.
Don't give up, I think. Not just yet.
“Pat! Pat! Wait up!”
I look back toward the stadiums, and my
brother is running toward me. Over the
next minute or so, Jake gets bigger and
bigger, and then he is right in front of me,
bent over, huffing and puffing.
“sorry,” I say. so, so sorry.”
“For what?” Jake laughs, pulls out his
cell phone, dials a number, and holds the
small phone up to his ear.
“I found him,” Jake says into the phone.
“Yeah, tell him.”
Jake hands me the phone. I put it up to
my ear.
“Is this Rocky Balboa?”
I recognize the voice as Scott's.
“Listen, the asshole you knocked out—well, he woke up and is super pissed.
Better not come back to the tent.”
“Is he okay?” I ask.
“You should be more worried about
yourself.”
“Why?”
“We played dumb when the cops
showed up, and no one was able to identify
you or your brother—but ever since five-o
left, the big guy's been searching the
parking lot, looking for you. Whatever you
do, don't come back here, because this
Giants fan's hellbent on revenge.”
I hand the phone back to Jake, feeling
somewhat relieved to know I did not
seriously hurt Steve, but also feeling numb
—because I lost control again. Plus,  a
little afraid of the Giants fan.
“So, are we going home now?” I ask
Jake when he finishes talking to Scott.
“Home? Are you kiddin' me?” he says,
and we start walking back toward the Linc.
When I don't say anything for a long
time, my brother asks if okay.
not okay, but I don't say so.
“Listen, that asshole attacked you and
threw me to the ground. You only defended
your family,” Jake says. “You should be
proud. You were the hero.”
Even though I was defending my brother,
even though I did not seriously hurt the
Giants fan, I don't feel proud at all. I feel
guilty. I should be locked up again in the
bad place. I feel as though Dr. Timbers
was right about me—that I don't belong in
the real world, because I amuncontrollable and dangerous. But of
course I do not say this to Jake, mostly
because he has never been locked up and
doesn't understand what it feels like to
lose control, and he only wants to watch
the football game now, and none of this
means anything to him, because he has
never been married and he has never lost
someone like Nikki and he is not trying to
improve his life at all, because he doesn't
ever feel the war that goes on in my chest
every single fucking day—the chemical
explosions that light up my skull like the
Fourth of July and the awful needs and
impulses and …
Outside the Linc, masses form thick
lines, and with hundreds of other fans, we
wait to be frisked. I don't remember being
frisked at the Vet. I wonder when it
became necessary to frisk people at NFL
games, but I do not ask Jake, because he is
now singing “Fly, Eagles, Fly” with
hundreds of other drunken Eagles fans.
After we are frisked, we climb the steps
and have our tickets scanned, and then we
are inside of Lincoln Financial Field.
People everywhere—it's like a hive full of
green bees, and the buzz is deafening. We
often have to turn sideways just to squeeze
between people as we walk the concourse
to get to our section. I follow Jake,
worrying about getting separated, because
I would be lost for sure.
We hit the men's room, and Jake gets
everyone inside to sing the Eagles fight
song again. The lines for the urinals are
long, and I am amazed that no one pees in
the sinks, because at the Vet—at least up in
the 700 Level—all sinks were used as
extra urinals.
When we finally get to our seats, we are
in the end zone, only twenty or so rows up
fromthe field.
“How did you get such good tickets?” I
ask Jake.
“I know a guy,” he replies, and smiles
proudly.
Scott is already seated, and he
congratulates me on my fight, saying, “You
knocked that fucking Giants fan out cold!”
which makes me feel awful again.
Jake and Scott high-five just about
everyone in the section, and as the other
fans call Scott and my brother by name, it
becomes obvious that they are quite
popular here.
When the beer man comes around, Scott
buys us a round, and I am amazed to find a
cup holder in the seat in front of me. You
would never see such a luxury item at the
Vet.
Just before the Eagles' players are
announced, clips from the Rocky movies
are shown on the huge screens at each end
of the field—Rocky running by the old
Navy Yard, Rocky punching sides of beef
in the meat locker, Rocky running up the
steps of the art museum—and Jake and
Scott keep saying, “That's you. That's
you,” until I worry that someone will hear
them, understand that I just fought the
Giants fan in the parking lot, and tell the
police to take me back to the bad place.
When the Eagles' starting lineup is
announced, fireworks explode and
cheerleaders kick and everyone is standing
and Jake keeps on pounding my back with
his hand and strangers are high-fiving me,
and suddenly I stop thinking about my fight
in the parking lot. I begin to think about my
dad watching the game in our family room—my mother serving him buffalo wings
and pizza and beers, hoping the Eagles win
just so her husband will be in a good mood
for a week. I again wonder if my dad will
start talking to me at night if the Eagles pull
out a victory today, and suddenly it's
kickoff and I am cheering as if my life
depends on the outcome of the game.
The Giants score first, but the Eagles
answer with a touchdown of their own,
after which the whole stadium sings the
fight song—punctuated by the Eagles chant
—with deafening pride.
Late in the first quarter, Hank Baskett
gets his first catch of his NFL career—a
twenty-five-yarder. Everyone in our
section high-fives me and pats me on the
back because I am wearing my official
Hank Baskett jersey, and I smile at my
brother because he gave me such a great
present.
The game is all Eagles after that, and at
the start of the fourth quarter the Eagles are
up 24–7. Jake and Scott are so happy, and I
am beginning to imagine the conversation I
am going to have with my father when I get
home—how proud he will be of my yelling
whenever Eli Manning was trying to call a
play.
But then the Giants score seventeen
unanswered points in the fourth quarter,
and the Philadelphia fans are shocked.
In overtime, Plaxico Burress goes up
and over Sheldon Brown in the end zone,
and the Giants leave Philadelphia with a
win.
It is awful to watch.
Outside of the Linc, Scott says, “Better
not come back to the tent. That asshole will
be there waiting, for sure.”
So we say goodbye to Scott and follow
the masses to the subway entrance.
Jake has tokens. We go through the
turnstiles, descend underground, and push
our way onto an already packed subway
car. People yell, “No room!” but Jake
mashes his body in between the other
bodies and then pulls me in too. My
brother's chest is against my back;
strangers are smashed against my arms.
The doors finally close, and my nose is
almost touching the glass window.
The smell of beer resurfacing through
everyone's sweat glands is pungent.
I don't like being this close to so many
strangers, but I don't say anything, and
soon we are at City Hall.
After we exit the train, we spin another
turnstile, climb up into center city, and
begin walking down Market Street, past
the old department stores and the new
hotels and The Gallery.
“You wanna see my apartment?” Jake
asks when we get to the Eighth and Market
PATCO stop, which is where I can hop a
train over the Ben Franklin Bridge to
Collingswood.
I do want to see Jake's apartment, but I
am tired and anxious to get home so I can
do a little lifting before bed. I ask if I might
see it some other time.
“Sure,” he says. “It's good to have you
back, brother. You were a true Eagles fan
today.”
I nod.
“Tell Dad the Birds will bounce back
next week against San Fran.”
I nod again.
My brother surprises me by giving me a
two-armed hug and saying, “I love you,
bro. Thanks for getting my back in the
parking lot.”
I tell him that I love him too, and then he
is walking down Market Street singing
“Fly, Eagles, Fly” at the top of his lungs.
I descend underground, insert the five
my mother gave me into the change
machine, buy a ticket, stick it into the
turnstile, descend more stairs, hit the
waiting platform, and begin to think about
that little kid in the Giants jersey. How
hard did he cry when he realized his father
had been knocked out? Did the kid even get
to see the game? A few other men in
Eagles jerseys are sitting on the chrome
benches. Each nods sympathetically at me
when they see my Hank Baskett jersey.
One man at the far end of the platformyells, “Goddamn fucking Birds!” and then
kicks a metal trash can. Another man
standing next to me shakes his head and
whispers, “Goddamn fucking Birds.”
When the train comes, I choose to stand
just inside the doors, and as the train slides
across the dusk sky, over the Delaware
River, across the Ben Franklin Bridge, I
look at the city skyline, and—again—I
start to think about that kid crying. I feel so
awful when I think about that little kid.
I get off the train at Collingswood, walk
across the open-air platform and down the
steps, stick my card into the turnstile
machine, and then jog home.
My mother is sitting in the family room,
sipping tea. “How's Dad?” I ask.
She shakes her head and points at the
TV.
The screen is cracked so that it looks
like a spiderweb. “What happened?”
“Your father smashed the screen with
the reading lamp.”
“Because the Eagles lost?”
“No, actually. He did it when the Giants
tied the game at the end of the fourth
quarter. Your father had to watch the
Eagles blow the game on the bedroomtelevision,” Mom says. “How's your
brother?”
“Fine,” I say. “Where's Dad?”
“In his office.”
“Oh.”
“ sorry your team lost,” Mom says,
just to be nice, I know.
“It's okay,” I answer, and then go down
into the basement, where I lift weights for
hours and try to forget about that little
Giants fan crying, but I still can't get the
kid out of my mind.
For whatever reason I fall asleep on the
rug that covers part of the basement floor.
In my dreams the fight happens again and
again, only instead of the Giants fan
bringing a kid to the game, the Giants fan
brings Nikki, and she too is wearing a
Giants jersey. Every time I knock the big
guy out, Nikki pushes through the crowd,
cradles Steve's head in her hands, kisses
his forehead, and then looks up at me.
Just before I run away, she says,
“You're an animal, Pat. And I will never
love you again.”
I cry through my dreams and try not to
hit the Giants fan every time the memory
flashes through my mind, but I can't control
my dream self any more than I could
control my awake self after seeing the
blood on Jake's hands.
I wake up to the sound of the basement
door being closed, and I see the light
streaming in through the small windows
over the washer and dryer. I walk up the
steps, and I cannot believe the sports pages
are there.
I am very upset about the dream I had,
but I realize it was only a dream, and
despite everything that has happened, my
father is still leaving me the sports pages
after one of the worst Eagles losses in
history.
So I take a deep breath. I allow myself
to feel hopeful again and start my exercise
routine.
Sister Sailor-Mouth
 at the Crystal Lake Diner with Tiffany;
we're in the same booth as last time, eating
our single-serving box of raisin bran,
drinking hot tea. We did not say anything
on the walk here; we did not say anything
when we were waiting for our server to
bring the milk, bowl, and box.  starting
to understand that we have the type of
friendship that does not require many
words.
As I watch her spoon the brown flakes
and sugared raisins into her pink lips, I try
to decide whether I want to tell her about
what happened at the Eagles game.
For two days now I have been thinking
about that little kid crying, hiding behind
his father's leg, and I feel so guilty about
hitting the big Giants fan. I did not tell my
mom, because the news would have upset
her. My father has not talked to me since
the Eagles lost to the Giants, and I don't
see Dr. Cliff until Friday. Plus, starting
to think Tiffany is the only one who might
understand, since she seems to have a
similar problem and is always exploding,
like on the beach when Veronica slipped
and mentioned Tiffany's therapist in front
of me.
I look at Tiffany, who is sitting
slouched, both elbows on the table. She's
wearing a black shirt that makes her hair
look even blacker. She has on too much
makeup, as usual. She looks sad. She looks
angry. She looks different from everyone
else I know—she cannot put on that happy
face others wear when they know they are
being watched. She doesn't put on a face
for me, which makes me trust her
somehow.
Suddenly Tiffany looks up, stares into
my eyes. “You're not eating.”
“ sorry,” I say, and look down at the
gold sparkles in the table's plastic coating.
“People will think  a hog if they see
me eating while you watch.”
So I dip my spoon into the bowl, drip
milk onto the sparkly table, and shovel a
small mound of milk-soaked raisin bran
into my mouth.
I chew.
I swallow.
Tiffany nods and then looks out the
window again.
“Something bad happened at the Eagles
game,” I say, and then wish I hadn't.
“I don't want to hear about football.”
Tiffany sighs. “I hate football.”
“This really isn't about football.”
She continues to stare out the window.
I look and confirm that there are only
parked cars outside, nothing of interest.
And then I am talking: “I hit a man so hard
—lifting him up off the ground even—I
thought I maybe killed him.”
She looks at me. Tiffany squints and sort
of smiles, like she might even laugh.
“Well, did you?”
“Did I what?”
“Kill the man.”
“No. No, I didn't. I knocked him out, but
he eventually woke up.”
“Should you have killed him?” Tiffany
asks.
“I don't know.” I am amazed by her
question. “I mean, no! Of course not.”
“Then why did you hit himso hard?”
“He threw my brother down to the
concrete, and my mind just exploded. It
was like I left my body and my body was
doing something I did not want to do. And I
haven't really talked about this with
anyone and I was hoping you might want to
listen to me so that I could—”
“Why did the man throw your brother to
the ground?”
I tell her the whole story—start to finish
—letting her know I can't get the big guy's
son out of my mind.  still seeing the
little guy hiding behind his father's leg; seeing the little guy crying, sobbing, so
obviously afraid. I also tell her about my
dream—the one where Nikki comforts the
Giants fan.
When I finish the story, Tiffany says,
“So?”
“So?”
“So I don't get why you're so upset?”
For a second I think she might be
kidding me, but Tiffany's face does not
crack.
“upset because I know Nikki will be
mad at me when I tell her what happened. I
am upset because I disappointed myself,
and apart time will surely be extended now
because God will want to protect Nikki
until I learn to control myself better, and
like Jesus, Nikki is a pacifist, which is the
reason she did not like me going to the
rowdy Eagles games in the first place, and
I don't want to be sent back to the bad
place, and God, I miss Nikki so much, it
hurts so bad and—”
“Fuck Nikki,” Tiffany says, and then
slips another spoonful of raisin bran into
her mouth.
I stare at her.
She chews nonchalantly.
She swallows.
“Excuse me?” I say.
“The Giants fan sounds like a total
prick, as do your brother and your friend
Scott. You didn't start the fight. You only
defended yourself. And if Nikki can't deal
with that, if Nikki won't support you when
you are feeling down, then I say fuck her.”
“Don't you ever talk about my wife like
that,” I say, hearing the sharp anger in my
voice.
Tiffany rolls her eyes at me.
“I won't allow any of my friends to talk
about my wife like that.”
“Your wife, huh?” Tiffany says.
“Yes. My wife, Nikki.”
“You mean your wife, Nikki, who
abandoned you while you were recovering
in a mental institution. Why isn't your wife,
Nikki, sitting here with you right now, Pat?
Think about it. Why are you eating fucking
raisin bran with me? All you ever think
about is pleasing Nikki, and yet your
precious Nikki doesn't seem to think about
you at all. Where is she? What's Nikki
doing right now? Do you really believe
she's thinking about you?”
too shocked to speak.
“Fuck Nikki, Pat. Fuck her! FUCK
NIKKI!” Tiffany slaps her palms against
the table, making the bowl of raisin bran
jump. “Forget her. She's gone. Don't you
see that?”
Our server comes over to the table. She
puts her hands on her hips. She presses her
lips together. She looks at me. She looks at
Tiffany. “Hey, sister sailor-mouth,” the
server says.
When I look around, the other customers
are looking at my foulmouthed friend.
“This isn't a bar, okay?”
Tiffany looks at the server; she shakes
her head. “You know what? Fuck you too,”
Tiffany says, and then she is striding
across the diner and out the door.
“ just doin' my job,” says the server.
“Jeez!”
“ sorry,” I say, and hand the server
all the money I have—the twenty-dollar
bill my mother gave me when I said I
wanted to take Tiffany out for raisin bran. I
asked for two twenties, but Mom said I
couldn't give the server forty dollars when
the meal only costs five, even after I told
Mom about overtipping, which I learned
fromNikki, as you already know.
The waitress says, “Thanks, pal. But you
better go after your girlfriend.”
“She's not my girlfriend,” I say. “She's
just a friend.”
“Whatever.”
Tiffany is not outside of the diner.
I look down the street and see her
running away fromme.
When I catch up to her, I ask what's
wrong.
She doesn't answer; she keeps running.
At a quick pace, we jog side by side
back into Collingswood, all the way to her
parents' house, and then Tiffany runs
around to the back door without saying
goodbye.
The Implied Ending
That night I try to read The Bell Jar by
Sylvia Plath. Nikki used to talk about how
important Plath's novel is, saying, “Every
young woman should be forced to read The
Bell Jar.” I had Mom check it out of the
library, mostly because I want to
understand women so I can relate to
Nikki's feelings and whatnot.
The cover of the book looks pretty girly,
with a dried rose hung upside down,
suspended over the title.
Plath mentions the Rosenbergs'
execution on the first page, at which point I
know in for a depressing read, because
as a former history teacher, I understand
just how depressing the Red Scare was,
and McCarthyism too. Soon after making a
reference to the Rosenbergs, the narrator
starts talking about cadavers and seeing a
severed head while eating breakfast.
The main character, Esther, has a good
internship at a New York City magazine,
but she is depressed. She uses fake names
with the men she meets. Esther sort of has
a boyfriend named Buddy, but he treats her
horribly and makes her feel as though she
should have babies and be a housewife
rather than become a writer, which is what
she wants to be.
Eventually Esther breaks down and is
given electroshock therapy, tries to kill
herself by taking too many sleeping pills,
and is sent to a bad place like the one I
was in.
Esther refers to a black man who serves
food in her bad place as “the Negro.” This
makes me think about Danny and how mad
the book would make my black friend,
especially because Esther was white and
Danny says only black people can use
controversial racial terms such as
“Negro.”
At first, even though it is really
depressing, this book excites me because it
deals with mental health, a topic I am very
interested in learning about. Also, I want to
see how Esther gets better, how she will
eventually find her silver lining and get on
with her life. I am sure Nikki assigns this
book so that depressed teenage girls will
see there's hope if you just hold on long
enough.
So I read on.
Esther loses her virginity, hemorrhages
during the process, and almost bleeds to
death—like Catherine in A Farewell to
Arms— and I do wonder why women are
always hemorrhaging in American
literature. But Esther lives, only to find that
her friend Joan has hung herself. Esther
attends the funeral, and the book ends just
as she steps into a room full of therapists
who will decide if Esther is healthy
enough to leave her bad place.
We do not get to see what happens to
Esther, whether she gets better, and that
made me very mad, especially after
reading all night.
As the sun begins to shine through my
bedroom window, I read the biographical
sketch at the back of the book and find out
that the whole “novel” is basically the
story of Sylvia Plath's life and that the
author eventually stuck her head in an
oven, killing herself just like Hemingway
—only without the gun—which I
understand is the implied ending of the
book, since everyone knows the novel is
really Sylvia Plath's memoir.
I actually rip the book in half and throw
the two halves at my bedroomwall.
Basement.
Stomach Master 6000.
Five hundred crunches.
Why would Nikki make teenagers read
such a depressing novel?
Weight bench.
Bench press.
One-hundred-thirty-pound reps.
Why do people read books like The Bell
Jar?
Why?
Why?
Why?
 surprised when Tiffany shows up the
next day for our sunset run. I don't know
what to say to her, so I say nothing—like
usual.
We run.
We run again the next day too, but we
don't discuss the comments Tiffany made
about my wife.
An Acceptable Form of Coping
In the cloud room, I pick the black recliner
because I amfeeling a little depressed. For
a few minutes I don't say anything. I amworried that Cliff will send me back to the
bad place if I tell himthe truth, but I feel so
guilty sitting there—and then  talking at
Cliff, spilling everything in a wild slur of
sentences: the big Giants fan, the little
Giants fan, my fistfight, the Eagles' loss to
the Giants, my father smashing the
television screen, his bringing me the
sports pages but refusing to speak with me,
my dream about Nikki wearing a Giants
jersey, Tiffany saying “Fuck Nikki” but
still wanting to run with me every day; and
then Nikki teaching Sylvia Plath to
defenseless teenagers, my ripping The Bell
Jar in half, and Sylvia Plath sticking her
head in an oven. “An oven?” I say. “Why
would anyone stick their head in an
oven?”
The release is powerful, and I realize
now that somewhere in the middle of my
rant I had begun crying. When I finish
speaking, I cover my face, because Cliff is
my therapist, yes, but he is also a man and
an Eagles fan and maybe a friend too.
I start sobbing behind my hands.
All is quiet in the cloud room for a few
minutes, and then Cliff finally speaks,
saying, “I hate Giants fans. So arrogant,
always wanting to talk about L.T., who
was nothing but a dirty rotten cokehead.
Two Super Bowls, yes, but XXV and XXI
were some time ago—more than fifteen
years have passed. And we were there just
two years ago, right? Even if we did lose.”
I amsurprised.
I was sure Cliff was going to yell at me
for hitting the Giants fan, that he would
again threaten to send me back to the bad
place, and his bringing up Lawrence
Taylor seems so random that I lower my
hands and see that Cliff is standing,
although he is so small his head is not
much higher than mine, even though I amsitting down. Also, I sort of think he just
implied that the Eagles were in the Super
Bowl two years ago, which would make
me very upset because I have absolutely no
memory of this, so I try to forget what Cliff
said about our teambeing in the big game.
“Don't you hate Giants fans?” he says to
me. “Don't you just hate 'em? Come on
now, tell the truth.”
“Yeah, I do,” I say. “A lot. So do my
brother and father.”
“Why would this man wear a Giants
jersey to an Eagles game?”
“I don't know.”
“Did he not think he would be
mocked?”
I don't know what to say.
“Every year I see these stupid Dallas
and Giants and Redskins fans come into
our house wearing their colors, and every
year these same fans get manhandled by
drunken Eagles fans. When will they
learn?”
I amtoo shocked to speak.
Does this mean Cliff is a season-ticket
holder? I wonder, but do not ask.
“Not only were you defending your
brother, but you were defending your team
too! Right?”
I realize that I amnodding.
Cliff sits down. He pulls the lever, his
footrest comes up, and I stare at the well-
worn soles of his penny loafers.
“When I am sitting in this chair, I am
your therapist. When I am not in this chair,
I ama fellow Eagles fan. Understand?”
I nod.
“Violence is not an acceptable solution.
You did not have to hit that Giants fan.”
I nod again. “I didn't want to hit him.”
“But you did.”
I look down at my hands. My fingers are
all squirmy.
“What alternatives did you have?” he
says.
“Alternatives?”
“What else could you have done,
besides hitting the Giants fan?”
“I didn't have time to think. He was
pushing me, and he threw my brother down
—”
“What if he had been Kenny G?”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
“Yes, the humming. Why not try that
when you feel as though you are going to
hit someone? Where did you learn that
technique?”
 a little mad at Cliff for bringing up
Kenny G, which seems like a dirty trick,
especially since he knows Mr. G is my
biggest nemesis, but I remember that Cliff
did not yell at me when I told him the truth,
and I am thankful for that, so I say, “Nikki
used to hum a single note whenever I
offended her. She said she learned it in
yoga class. And whenever she hummed, it
would catch me off guard. I would get
really freaked out, because it is strange to
sit next to someone who is humming a
single note with her eyes closed—and
Nikki would keep humming that single note
for such a long time. When she finally
stopped, I would be grateful, and I also
would be more aware of her displeasure
and more receptive to her feelings, which
is something I did not appreciate until
recently.”
“So that's why you hum every time
someone brings up Kenny—”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
When I finish, Cliff says, “It allows you
to express your displeasure in a unique
way, disarming those around you. Very
interesting tactic. Why not use this in other
areas of your life? What if you had closed
your eyes and hummed when the Giants fan
pushed you?”
I hadn't thought of that.
“Do you think he would have continued
to push you if you had closed your eyes
and hummed?”
Probably not, I think. The Giants fan
would have thought I was crazy, which is
exactly what I thought about Nikki when
she first used the tactic on me.
Cliff smiles and nods at me when he
reads my face.
We talk a little about Tiffany. He says it
seems as though Tiffany has romantic
feelings for me, and he claims she is most
likely jealous of my love for Nikki, which
I think is silly, especially since Tiffany
never even talks to me and is always so
aloof when we are together. Plus Tiffany is
so beautiful, and I have not aged well at
all.
“She's just a weird woman,” I say in
response.
“Aren't they all?” Cliff replies, and we
laugh some because women truly are hard
to figure out sometimes.
“What about my dream? Me seeing
Nikki in a Giants jersey? What do you
think that means?”
“What do you think it means?” Cliff
asks, and when I shrug, he changes the
subject.
Cliff says Sylvia Plath's work is very
depressing to read, and that his own
daughter had recently suffered through The
Bell Jar because she is taking anAmerican
literature course at Eastern High School.
“And you didn't complain to
administration?” I asked.
“About what?”
“About your daughter being forced to
read such depressing stories.”
“No. Of course not. Why would I?”
“Because the novel teaches kids to be
pessimistic. No hope at the end, no silver
lining. Teenagers should be taught that—”
“Life is hard, Pat, and children have to
be told how hard life can be.”
“Why?”
“So they will be sympathetic to others.
So they will understand that some people
have it harder than they do and that a trip
through this world can be a wildly
different experience, depending on what
chemicals are raging through one's mind.”
I had not thought about this explanation,
that reading books like The Bell Jar
helped others understand what it was like
t o be Esther Greenwood. And I realize
now that I have a lot of sympathy for
Esther, and if she were a real person in my
life, I would have tried to help her, only
because I knew her thoughts well enough to
understand she was not simply deranged,
but suffering because her world had been
so cruel to her and because she was
depressed, due to the wild chemicals in
her mind.
“So you're not mad at me?” I ask when I
see Cliff look at his watch, which signifies
our session is almost over.
“No. Not at all.”
“Really?” I ask, because I know Cliff is
probably going to write all my recent
failures down in a file as soon as I leave.
That he probably thinks he has failed as my
therapist—at least for this week.
Cliff stands, smiles at me, and then
looks out the bay window at the sparrow
washing in the stone birdbath.
“Before you leave, Pat, I want to say
something very important to you. This is a
matter of life and death. Are you listening
to me? Because I really want you to
remember this. Okay?”
I start to worry because Cliff sounds so
serious, but I swallow, nod, and say,
“Okay.”
Cliff turns.
Cliff faces me.
His face looks grave, and for a second, I
amvery nervous.
But then Cliff throws his hands up in the
air and yells “Ahhhhhhhhh!”
I laugh because Cliff has tricked me
with his funny joke. I immediately stand,
throw my hands up in the air, and yell
“Ahhhhhhhhh!”
“E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!” we
chant in unison, throwing our arms and legs
out in an effort to represent each letter with
our bodies, and I have to say—as stupid as
it may sound—chanting with Cliff makes
me feel a whole lot better. And judging by
the smile on his little brown face, he
knows the value of what he is doing for
me.
Balanced Very Carefully, As If
the Whole Thing Might Topple
When the Heater Vents Begin to
Blow Later This Fall
From the basement, I hear my dad say, “It
goes right here, on this table.” Three sets
of footsteps are moving across the familyroom floor, and soon I hear something
heavy being set down. After fifteen minutes
or so, the sounds of college football
explode through the floor above—big
bands playing, drums galore, fight songs
being sung—and I realize my father has
replaced the family-room television. I hear
the deliverymen's footsteps exit, and then
Dad increases the volume so I can hear
every play call the commentators make,
even though I am in the basement and the
basement door is shut. I don't follow
college football, so I don't really know the
players or the teams being discussed.
I do some curls and simply listen,
secretly hoping Dad will come down into
the basement, tell me about the new
television, and ask me to watch the game
with him. But he doesn't.
Suddenly, maybe a half hour after the
deliverymen leave, the volume is turned
down, and I hear Mom ask, “What the hell
is this?”
“It's a high-definition television with
surround sound,” my father replies.
“No, that is a movie screen, and—”
“Jeanie—”
“Don't you ‘Jeanie' me.”
“I work hard for our money, and I won't
have you telling me how to spend it!”
“Patrick, it's ridiculous. It doesn't even
fit on the end table. How much did you pay
for that?”
“Never mind.”
“You smashed the old television just so
you could buy a bigger one, didn't you?”
“Jesus Christ, Jeanie. Will you please
stop bitching at me for once?”
“We're on a budget. We agreed—”
“Oh. Okay. We're on a budget.”
“We agreed that—”
“We have money to feed Pat. We have
money to buy Pat a new wardrobe. We
have money to buy Pat a home gym. We
have money for Pat's medications. Well
then, the way I see it, we have money for a
new fucking television set too.”
I hear my mother's footsteps exit the
family room. Just before my father turns up
the game again, I hear her stomp up the
steps to her bedroom, where I know she
will cry because my father has cursed at
her again.
And it's my fault their money is
stretched.
I feel awful.
I do sit-ups on the Stomach Master 6000
until it is time to run with Tiffany.
When I finally go upstairs, I see that
Dad's television set is one of those new
flat-screen models they advertised when
we watched the Eagles play Houston, and
it is literally almost the size of our diningroom table. It's huge; only the center third
rests on the end table, making it look as if
it is balanced very carefully, as if the
whole thing might topple when the heater
vents begin to blow later this fall. Even
still, while I do feel bad about Mom, I
have to admit that the picture quality is
excellent and the speakers set up on stands
behind the couch fill the house with sound,
making it seem as though the college
football game is being played in our family
room—and I start to look forward to
watching the Eagles on the new set,
thinking the players will almost appear
life-size.
I stand behind the couch for a second,
admiring my father's new television,
hoping he will acknowledge my presence.
I even say, “Dad, did you get a new
television?”
But he doesn't answer me.
He is mad at my momfor questioning his
purchase, so now he will sulk. He will not
talk to anyone for the rest of the day, I
know fromexperience, so I leave the house
and find Tiffany jogging up and down the
street.
Tiffany and I run together, but we do not
talk.
When I return home, Tiffany keeps
jogging without even saying goodbye, and
as I jog up the driveway to the back door,
Mother's car is gone.
The “Pat” Box
By 11:00 p.m. my mother has not returned
home, and I start to worry because every
night at 10:45 p.m.  supposed to take
pills that help me sleep. It isn't like Momto foul up my medication schedule.
I knock on my parents' bedroom door.
When no one answers, I push the door
open. My father is sleeping with the small
bedroom television on. The blue glow
makes his skin look alien—he sort of looks
like a big fish in a lit aquarium, only
without gills, scales, and fins. I walk over
to my dad and shake his shoulder lightly.
“Dad?” I shake hima little harder. “Dad?”
“Whaddya want?” he says without
opening his eyes. He is lying on his side,
and the left side of his mouth is smashed
into the pillow.
“Mom's not home yet. worried.”
He doesn't say anything.
“Where is she?”
Still, he does not say anything.
“ worried about Mom. Do you think
we should call the police?”
I wait for a reply, but only hear my
father snoring softly.
After turning off the television, I leave
my parents' bedroom and go downstairs to
the kitchen.
I tell myself if Dad isn't worried, I
shouldn't be either. But I know it isn't like
Mom to leave me alone without telling me
where she will be, especially without
talking to me about my medications.
I open the kitchen cabinet and take out
the eight bottles of pills that all have my
name printed on the labels. So many long,
depressing drug names are on the labels as
well, but I only know the pills by their
colors, so I open all the lids and look for
what I need.
Two white-and-reds for sleeping, and
also a green one with a yellow stripe, but I
do not know what the green one with a
yellow stripe does. Maybe antianxiety? I
take all three pills because I want to sleep,
and also, I know that is what Mom would
want me to do. Maybe Mom is testing me.
Since my father talked down to her earlier
today, I really want to please Mom even
more than on regular days, although I amnot sure why.
I lie in bed wondering where Momcould be. I want to call her cell phone, but
I don't know the number. Maybe she had a
car accident? Maybe she had a stroke or a
heart attack? But then I think a police
officer or a hospital doctor would have
called us by now if any of those things had
happened, because she would certainly
have her credit cards and license on her.
Maybe she got lost while driving? But then
she would have used her cell phone to call
home and would have told us she was
running late. Maybe she got sick of Dad
and me and ran away? I think about this
and realize that excluding the times when
she teases me about Tiffany being “my
friend,” I haven't seen my mother laugh or
smile in a very long time—in fact, if I
really think about it, I often see Momcrying or looking like she is about to cry.
Maybe she got sick of keeping track of my
pills? Maybe I forgot to flush one morning
and Mom found some of my pills in the
toilet and is now mad at me for hiding pills
under my tongue? Maybe I have failed to
appreciate Mom just like I failed to
appreciate Nikki, and now God is taking
Mom away from me too? Maybe Mom is
never coming home again and—
Just as I start to feel seriously anxious,
as if I might need to bang the heel of my
hand against my forehead, I hear a car pull
into the driveway.
When I look out the window, I see
Mom's red sedan.
I run down the stairs.
out the door before she even reaches
the back porch.
“Mom?” I say.
“Is-jus-me,” she says through the
shadows in the driveway.
“Where were you?”
“Out.” When she enters into the white
circle cast from the outside light, she looks
like she might fall backward, so I run
down the steps and give her a hand,
bracing her shoulders with my arm. Her
head is sort of wobbly, but she manages to
look me in the eyes; she squints and says,
“Nikki-sa-fool t'ave let you getta-way.”
Her mentioning Nikki makes me feel
even more anxious, especially what she
said about my getting away, because I have
not gotten away and would be more than
willing to go back to Nikki now or
whenever, and it was me who was the
fool, never appreciating Nikki for what she
was—all of which Mother knows so well.
But I can smell the alcohol on her breath; I
hear her slurring her words, and I realize
it's probably just the alcohol talking
nonsense. Mom does not usually drink, but
tonight she is obviously drunk, and this
also makes me worry.
I help her into the house and sit her
down on the couch in the family room.
Within minutes she's passed out cold.
It would be a bad idea to put my drunk
mother in bed with my sulking father, so I
put an arm under her shoulders and another
arm under her knees, lift her up, and carry
her to my bedroom. Mom is small and
light, so it is not hard for me to carry her
up the stairs. I get her into my bed, take off
her shoes, throw the comforter over her
body, and then go to get a glass of water
fromthe kitchen.
Back upstairs, I find a bottle of Tylenol
and tap out two white pills.
I pick my mother's head up, get her into
a seated position, shake her lightly until
she opens her eyes, and tell her to take the
pills along with the glass of water. At first
she says, “Jus lemme sleep,” but I know
from college days just how much this prebed water and headache medicine can
reduce the morning hangover. Finally my
mother takes the pills, drinks half a glass
of water, and is back asleep in no time at
all.
I watch her rest for a few minutes, and I
think she still looks pretty, that I really do
love my mom. I wonder where she went to
drink—with whom she drank and what she
drank—but really I am only happy that she
is home safe. I try not to think about her
downing drinks at some depressing bar,
with middle-aged men all around. I try not
to think about Mom bad-mouthing my
father to one of her girlfriends and then
driving home drunk. But it's all I can think
about: how my mother is being driven to
drink—how  driving my mother to
drink, and my father isn't helping much
either.
After grabbing my framed picture of
Nikki, I climb the stairs to the attic, set
Nikki up next to my pillow, and get into my
sleeping bag. I leave the lights on so I can
fall asleep looking at Nikki's freckled
nose, which is exactly what I do.
When I open my eyes, Kenny G is standing
over me, his legs bridging my body, a foot
on either side of my chest; the sexy
synthesizer chords are softly lighting the
darkness.
The last time Mr. G visited my parents'
attic flashes through my head—my father
kicking and punching me, my father
threatening to send me back to the bad
place—so I close my eyes, hum a single
note, and silently count to ten, blanking my
mind.
But Kenny G is undaunted.
The soprano sax enters Mr. G's lips
once more and “Songbird” takes flight. I
keep my eyes closed, hum a single note,
and silently count to ten, blanking my mind,
but he continues to blow his horn. The
little white scar above my right eyebrow
starts to burn and itch as the melody
flutters toward climax. Desperately, I want
to pound the heel of my hand against my
forehead, but instead I keep my eyes
closed, hum a single note, and silently
count to ten, blanking my mind.
Just when Kenny G's smooth jazz seems
unconquerable—
Seven, eight, nine, ten.
Suddenly silence.
When I open my eyes, I see Nikki's still
face, her freckled nose—I kiss the glass,
feeling so relieved that Kenny G has
stopped playing. I exit my sleeping bag,
look all around the attic—moving a few
dusty boxes and other items, searching
behind hanging rows of out-of-season
clothes—and Mr. G is gone. “I've defeated
him,” I whisper. “He didn't make me
punch my forehead, and—”
I see a box marked “Pat” and begin to
experience that bad feeling I sometimes get
just before something unpleasant is about
to happen. It feels as though I have to go to
the bathroom very badly, even though I
know I don't.
The box is at the far end of the attic. It
was hidden under a braided rug I moved
when I was searching for Kenny G. I have
to navigate my way back through the mess I
made during my search, but soon I reach
the box. I flip open the flaps at the top, and
my Collingswood High School soccer
jacket is on top. I take it out of the box and
hold the dusty thing up. The jacket looks so
small. I'd rip the yellow leather sleeves
off if I tried it on now, I think, and then set
the relic down on another nearby box.
When I next look into the “Pat” box, I amshocked and scared into rearranging the
attic so it looks exactly how it was before I
began searching for Mr. G.
When the attic is restored, I lie in my
sleeping bag, feeling as if I am in a dream.
Several times during the night I get up,
move the braided rug, and look in the “Pat”
box again, just to make sure I had not
hallucinated before. Every time, the
contents condemn Mom and make me feel
betrayed.
Mom's Handwriting Emerges
The sun bursts through the attic window
and lands on my face, warming it, until I
open my eyes and greet the day with a
squint. After a kiss, I return Nikki to my
bedroom dresser and find my mother still
asleep in my bed. I notice that the glass of
water I left her is now empty, and I am
glad to have left it there, even if I am mad
at Momnow.
As I descend the staircase, I smell
something burning.
When I reach the kitchen, my father is
standing in front of the stove. He is
wearing Mom's red apron.
“Dad?”
When he turns around, he has a spatula
in one hand and a pink oven mitt on the
other. Behind him, meat hisses—a thick
river of smoke flies up into the exhaust fan.
“What are you doing?”
“Cooking.”
“Cooking what?”
“Steak.”
“Why?”
“hungry.”
“Are you frying it?”
“cooking it Cajun style. Blackened.”
“Maybe you should turn the burner
down?” I suggest, but he returns to his
cooking, continuing to flip the sizzling cut
over and over, so I go down into the
basement to begin my workout.
The fire alarm goes off for fifteen
minutes or so.
When I return to the kitchen two hours
later, the pan he used is blackened and still
on the now greasy stove; a plate and
utensils are in the sink. Dad is watching
ESPN on his new television, and his
surround sound speaker system seems to
shake the house. The clock on the
microwave reads 8:17 a.m. My mother has
forgotten my meds again, so I take out my
eight bottles, remove all the caps, and
search for the right colors. Soon I have a
half dozen pills lined up on the counter,
and I confirm that the colors are what I
take every morning. I swallow all of my
pills, thinking maybe my mother is testing
me again, and even though I am technically
mad at her, I am also now very worried
about Mom, so I climb the steps to my
roomand see that she is still sleeping.
Downstairs, I stand behind the couch
and say, “Dad?”
But he ignores me, so I return to my
basement gym and continue my workout,
listening to the ESPN commentators recap
the college games and forecast the
upcoming NFL action. Their voices arrive
crisply through the floorboards above. I
know from reading the paper that the
Eagles are favored to win over San
Francisco, which makes me excited to
watch the game with my father, who will
be in a great mood if the Eagles are
victorious, and therefore he will also be
more likely to speak with me.
Midmorning, Mom descends, which is a
relief, because I was starting to worry that
she was really sick. I am riding the bike,
and—after finding the “Pat” box last night
—I just continue pedaling when Mom says,
“Pat?” I do not face Mom, but using my
peripheral vision, I see that she is
showered, her hair is done, her makeup is
applied, and she is wearing a pretty
summer dress. Mom also smells really
nice—lavender. “Did you take your pills
last night?” she asks.
I nod once.
“What about this morning?”
I nod again.
“Dr. Patel told me I should have
allowed you to take control over your
meds when you first came home, that this
was a step toward independence. But I
was being a mom when you did not need
me to be a mom. So congratulations, Pat.”
“Congratulations” is a strange thing for
her to say, especially since I have not won
a prize or anything, but I am really only
thinking about what happened last night,
why Mom came home drunk. So I ask her,
“Where were you last night? Did you go
out with friends?”
Using the corner of my eye again, I see
her look down at the old brown rug
beneath us. “I appreciate your putting me to
bed last night. The water and the Tylenol
helped. It was a bit of a role reversal, eh?
Well, I appreciate it. Thanks, Pat.”
I realize she has not answered my
question, but I don't know what to say, so I
say nothing.
“Your father has been a bear lately, and
 simply tired of it. So  making some
demands, and things are going to change a
little around here. Both of my men are
going to start taking care of themselves a
little more. You need to get on with your
life, and  sick and tired of the way your
father treats me.”
Suddenly I forget all about the “Pat” box
and face my mother as I continue pedaling.
“Are you mad at me? Did I do something
wrong?”
“ not mad at you, Pat. I am mad at
your father. He and I had a long talk
yesterday when you were running. Things
might be a little rough around here for a
few weeks, but I think we'll all be better
for it in the long run.”
A wild thought leaps into my head and
terrifies me. “You're not leaving us, Mom,
are you?”
“No.  not,” Mom says, looking me in
the eyes, which makes me believe her one
hundred percent. “I would never leave you,
Pat. But I am going out today because done with Eagles football. You two are on
your own for food.”
“Where are you going?” I ask, pedaling
faster now.
“Out,” Mom says, and then kisses the
little white scar on my sweaty forehead
before she leaves.
I am so nervous about what Mom has told
me that I do not eat anything all day, but
simply drink my water and do my routine.
Because the Eagles are playing at 4:15, I
get in a full workout. The whole time, I
secretly hope my father will come down
into the basement and ask me to watch the
1:00 NFL game with him, but he doesn't.
Midafternoon I climb up out of the
basement and stand behind the couch for a
second.
“Dad?” I say. “Dad?”
He ignores me and keeps watching the
1:00 game, and I don't even look to see
who is playing, because I am so nervous
about what Mom told me. I put on my trash
bag and hope Tiffany is outside, because I
could really use someone to talk to. But
after I stretch for fifteen minutes, Tiffany
doesn't show, so I run alone, thinking it
funny that when I want to run alone, Tiffany
is always there, but today she is not.
I am very hungry, and the pain in my
stomach increases as I run, which I relish
because it means I am losing weight, and
well, I feel as though I might have put on
some extra fat in the past week, especially
after drinking beer with Jake last weekend.
This reminds me that I have not spoken
with Jake since the Eagles lost to the
Giants, and I wonder if he is coming over
today to watch the game with Dad and me.
Since the pain has sharpened, I decide to
run farther than usual, pushing myself.
Also, I am sort of afraid to go home, now
that my mother has left me alone with my
father for the day, and I am not sure what
she meant by “changes” anyway. I keep
wishing Tiffany was running with me so I
might talk to her and tell her how I feel,
which is a strange desire since she usually
never says much in response, and the last
time I tried to talk to her about my
problems, she started cursing very loudly
in a public place and said some really
awful things about Nikki. Still, I amstarting to feel as though Tiffany is my best
friend, which is sort of strange and scary.
At the end of my run, I jog down my
street, and Jake's silver BMW is nowhere
to be seen. Maybe he took the train in fromPhiladelphia, I think. I am hoping not to be
left alone with my father for the game, but
somehow I know this is exactly what is
going to happen.
When I enter the house, my dad is still
alone on the couch, wearing his McNabb
jersey now and watching the end of the
1:00 game. A small collection of beer
bottles stand at his feet like bowling pins.
“Is Jake coming over?” I ask my father,
but he ignores me again.
Upstairs, I shower and put on my Hank
Baskett jersey.
When I reach the family room, the
Eagles game is just coming on, so I sit
down at the end of the couch my father is
not occupying.
“What the hell is that noise?” Dad says,
and then turns down the volume.
I realize my stomach is making crazy
gurgling noises, but I say, “I don't know,”
and Dad turns up the volume again.
Just as I had hoped, the new television
is an experience. The players warming up
on the field look life-size, and the sound
quality makes me feel as though I am in
San Francisco, sitting on the fifty-yard line.
Realizing that my brother is not going to
make it by kickoff, when a commercial
comes on, I jump to my feet and yell
“Ahhhhhhhhh!” but Dad only looks at me
like he wants to hit me in the face again. So
I sit down and do not say anything else.
The announcers state that Donté
Stallworth was a late scratch, so I start to
hope Baskett will get a few more balls
thrown his way, since the Eagles' number
one receiver is out of action.
The Eagles set up a nice drive and score
on their first possession with a shovel pass
to Westbrook, at which point my father's
emotions morph. He reaches across the
couch and repetitively claps his hand
against my thigh, saying over and over
again, “Touchdown Eagles! Touchdown
Eagles!” I start to feel hopeful for my dad,
but when the Eagles kick off, he resumes
his negative ways and says, “Don't
celebrate too much. Remember what
happened last week.” And it is almost as if
he is talking to himself, reminding himself
not to be overly hopeful.
The defense holds strong, and tight end
L. J. Smith scores a touchdown with only a
few minutes left in the first quarter, making
it 13–0. Even though the Eagles have
blown big leads before, it seems safe to
say the Birds are the superior team today.
My thoughts are confirmed after Akers hits
the extra point and my father jumps up and
starts singing “Fly, Eagles, Fly.” So I jump
up and sing with him, and we both do the
chant at the end, spelling the letters with
our arms and legs: “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S!
EAGLES!”
Between quarters, my father asks me if I
am hungry, and when I say yes, he orders
us a pizza and brings me a Bud from the
refrigerator. With the Eagles up 14–0, he is
all smiles, and as we sip our beer, he says,
“Now all we need is your boy Baskett to
get a catch or two.”
As if my father's words were a prayer
answered, McNabb's first completion in
the second quarter is to Baskett for eight
yards. Dad and I cheer so loudly for the
undrafted rookie.
The pizza arrives during halftime, and
the Eagles are up 24–3. “If only Jake were
here,” my father says. “Then this day
would be perfect.”
My dad and I have been so happy that
I've forgotten Jake is not with us. “Where
is Jake?” I ask, but Dad ignores the
question.
In the third quarter the San Francisco
running back fumbles on the Eagles' oneyard line and defensive tackle Mike
Patterson picks up the ball and runs toward
the opposite end zone. Dad and I are out of
our seats, cheering on the three-hundredpound lineman as he runs the whole length
of the field, and then the Eagles are up 31–
3.
San Francisco scores a few touchdowns
late in the second half, but it doesn't
matter, because the game is basically out
of reach, and the Eagles win 38–24. At the
conclusion of the game, my father and I
sing “Fly, Eagles, Fly” and do the chant
one last time, celebrating the Eagles'
victory, and then Dad simply turns off the
television and returns to his study without
even saying goodbye to me.
The house is so quiet.
Maybe a dozen or so beer bottles on the
floor, the pizza box is still on the coffee
table, and I know the sink is stacked full of
dishes and the pan in which Dad cooked
his breakfast steak. Since I am practicing
being kind, I figure I should at least clean
up the family room so Mom won't have to
do it. I carry the Bud bottles out to the
recycle bucket by the garage and throw
away the pizza box in the outside garbage
can. Back inside, a few used napkins are
on the floor, and when I reach down to
pick up the mess, I spot a crumpled ball of
paper under the coffee table.
I pick up the ball, uncrumple it, and
realize it is not one but two pieces of
paper. Mom's handwriting emerges. I
flatten the papers out on the coffee table.
Patrick,
I need to tell you I will no longer allow
you to disregard the decisions we make
together, nor will I allow you to talk
down to me any longer—especially in
front of others. I have met a new friend
who has encouraged me to assert myself
more forcefully in an ef ort to gain your
respect. Know that I am doing this to save
our marriage.
Your options:
1. Return the monstrous television
you purchased, and everything
will go back to normal.
2. Keep the monstrous television,
and you must agree to the
following demands:
1. You must eat dinner at the
table with Pat and me five
nights a week.
2. You must go on a half-hour
walk with either Pat or me
five nights a week.
3. You must have a daily
conversation with Pat,
during which you ask him
at least five questions and
listen to his replies, which
you will report to me
nightly.
4. You must do one
recreational activity a
week with Pat and me,
such as eating at a
restaurant, seeing a movie,
going to the mall, shooting
baskets in the backyard,
etc.
Failure to complete either option 1 or
2 will force me to go on strike. I will no
longer clean your house, buy or cook
your food, launder your clothes, or share
your bed. Until you declare which option
you wish to take, consider your wife on
strike.
With best intentions,
Jeanie
It does not seem like Mom to be so
forceful with Dad, and I do wonder if her
“new friend” coached her through the
writing of the two-page letter. It is very
hard for me to picture Dad returning his
new television, especially after watching
the Eagles win on the new set. His
purchase will be considered good luck for
sure, and Dad will want to watch next
week's Eagles game on the same television
so he will not jinx the Birds, which is
understandable. But the demands Mommade—especially the one where Dad has
to talk to me every night—also seemincredibly improbable, although I do think
it would be nice to eat dinner together as a
family and maybe even go out to a
restaurant, but not to the movies, since I amnow only willing to watch the movie of my
own life.
Suddenly I need to speak with my
brother, but I do not know his phone
number. I find the address book in the
cabinet above the stove and place a call to
Jake's apartment. A woman picks up on the
third ring; her voice is beautiful.
“Hello?” she says.
I know it is not my brother on the other
end, but I still say, “Jake?”
“Who is this?”
“It's Pat Peoples.  looking for my
brother, Jake. Who are you?”
I hear the woman cover the phone with
her hand, and then my brother's voice
comes through loud and clear: “Did you
see that ninety-eight-yard fumble return?
Did you see Patterson run?”
I want to ask about the woman who
answered my brother's phone, but I am a
little afraid of finding out who she is.
Maybe I should already know, but forget
somehow. So I simply say, “Yeah, I saw
it.”
“Frickin' awesome, dude. I didn't know
a defensive tackle could run that far.”
“Why didn't you come over and watch
the game with Dad and me?”
“Truthfully?”
“Yes.”
“I can't lie to my brother. Mom called
me this morning and told me not to come,
so I went to a bar with Scott. She called
Ronnie too. I know because Ronnie called
me to make sure everything was okay. I
told himnot to worry.”
“Why?”
“Should he be worried?”
“No, why did Mom tell you and Ronnie
not to come over?”
“She said it would give you a chance to
be alone with Dad. She said it would force
Dad to talk to you. So did he?”
“A little.”
“Well, that's good, right?”
“I found a note from Momto Dad.”
“What?”
“I found a note from Momto Dad.”
“Okay. What did it say?”
“I'll just read it to you.”
“Go ahead.”
I read himthe note.
“Shit. Go Mom.”
“You know he won't be taking the
television back now, right?”
“Not after the Birds won today.”
“Yeah, and  worried that Dad won't
be able to meet the demands.”
“Well, he probably won't, but maybe
he'll at least try, right? And trying would
be good for him—and Mom.”
Jake changes the subject by mentioning
Baskett's catch in the second quarter,
which turned out to be his only catch of the
game. My brother doesn't want to talk
about our parents anymore. He says,
“Baskett's coming along. He's an
undrafted rookie, and he's getting catches.
That's huge.” But it doesn't feel huge to
me. Jake says he's looking forward to
seeing me next Monday night, when the
Eagles will play the Green Bay Packers.
He asks me to have lunch in the city before
we tailgate with Scott and the fat men, and
then we hang up.
It's getting late, and my mother is still
not home.
I begin to worry about her, and so I do
all the dishes by hand. For a good fifteen
minutes—with steel wool—I scrub the pan
my father burned. And then I vacuum the
family room. Dad had splattered some
pizza sauce on the couch, so I find some
cleaning spray in the hall cabinet and do
my best to remove the stain—dabbing
lightly and then wiping a little harder in a
circular motion, just like it says on the side
of the bottle. My mom comes home as I amon my knees cleaning the couch.
“Did your father tell you to clean up his
mess?” Momasks.
“No,” I say.
“Did he tell you about the letter I wrote
him?”
“No—but I found it.”
“Well, then you know. I don't want you
to do any cleaning, Pat. We're going to let
this place rot until your father gets the
message.”
I want to tell her I found the “Pat” box in
the attic, how hungry I was today, that I
really don't want to live in a filthy house,
and I need to take one thing at a time—finding the end of apart time first and
foremost—but Mom looks so determined
and almost proud. So I agree to help her
make the house filthy. She says we will be
eating takeout, and when my father is not
home, everything will be as it was before
she wrote the note, but when my father is
home, we will be slovenly. I tell Mom that
while she is on strike, she can sleep in my
bed, because I want to sleep in the attic
anyway. When she says she'll sleep on the
couch, I insist she take my bed, and she
thanks me.
“Mom?” I say when she turns to leave.
She faces me.
“Does Jake have a girlfriend?” I ask.
“Why?”
“I called him today, and a woman
answered the phone.”
“Maybe he does have a girlfriend,” she
says, and then walks away.
The indifference Mom shows regarding
Jake's love life makes me feel as though I
am forgetting something. If Jake had a girl
friend Momdid not know about, she would
have asked me a million questions. Her
lack of interest suggests that Mom is
keeping another secret from me, maybe
something larger than what I found in the
“Pat” box. Mom must be protecting me, I
think, but I still want to know fromwhat.
The Asian Invasion
After a relatively short workout and an
even shorter—and silent—run with
Tiffany, I hop a train to Philadelphia.
Following Jake's directions, I walk down
Market Street toward the river, turn right
on Second Street, and follow the road to
his building.
When I reach the address, I amsurprised
to find that Jake lives in a high-rise that
overlooks the Delaware River. I have to
give my name to the doorman and tell himwho I am visiting before he will let me in
the building. He's just an old man in a
funny costume, who says “Go Eagles”
when he sees my Baskett jersey, but my
brother having a doorman is sort of
impressive, regardless of the man's
uniform.
Another old man wears a different sort
of funny costume in the elevator—he even
has on one of those brimless monkey hats
—and this man takes me to the tenth floor
after I tell himmy brother's name.
The elevator doors open, and I walk
down a blue hallway on a thick red carpet.
When I find number 1021, I knock three
times.
“What's up, Baskett?” my brother says
after he opens the door. He's in his Jerome
Brown memorial jersey because it's game
day again. “Come on in.”
There is a huge bay window in the
living room, and I can see the Ben Franklin
Bridge, the Camden Aquarium, and tiny
boats floating on the Delaware. It's a
beautiful view. I immediately notice that
my brother has a flat-screen television thin
enough to hang on the wall like a picture—and it is even bigger than Dad's television.
But strangest of all, my brother has a baby
grand piano in his living room. “What's
this?” I ask.
“Check it out,” Jake says. He sits down
on the piano bench, lifts the cover off the
keys, and then actually starts playing. I amamazed that he can play “Fly, Eagles, Fly.”
His version isn't very fancy, just a simple
chord progression, but it's definitely the
Eagles' fight song. When he begins to sing,
I sing along with him. When he finishes,
we do the chant and then Jake tells me he
has been taking lessons for the past three
years. He even plays me another song,
which is very unlike “Fly, Eagles, Fly.”
This next song is familiar—surprisingly
gentle, like a kitten walking through high
grass—and it seems so unlike Jake to
create something this beautiful. I actually
feel my eyes moistening as my brother
plays with his eyes shut, moving his torso
back and forth with the sway of the piece,
which also looks funny because he is
wearing an Eagles jersey. He makes a
couple of mistakes, but I don't even care,
because he is trying very hard to play the
piece correctly for me and that's what
counts, right?
When he finishes, I clap loudly and then
ask himwhat he was playing.
“Pathétique. Piano Sonata number 8.
Beethoven. That was part of the second
movement. Adagio cantabile,” Jake says.
“Did you like it?”
“Very much.” Truthfully, I am amazed.
“When did you learn to play?”
“When Caitlin moved in with me, she
brought her piano, and she's sort of been
teaching me all about music ever since.”
I start to feel dizzy because I have never
heard mention of this Caitlin, and I think
my brother just told me she lives here with
him, which would mean my brother is in a
serious relationship I know nothing about.
This does not seem right. Brothers should
know about each other's lovers. Finally I
manage to say, “Caitlin?”
My brother takes me into his bedroom,
and there's a big wooden poster bed with
two matching armoires that look like
guards facing each other. He picks up a
framed black-and-white photo from the
bed stand and hands it to me. In the photo,
Jake's cheek is smashed against a beautiful
woman's. She has short blond hair, cut
almost like a man's, and she is very
delicate-looking, but pretty. She is in a
white dress; Jake is in a tuxedo. “That's
Caitlin,” Jake says. “She plays with the
Philadelphia Orchestra sometimes and
does a lot of recording in New York City
too. She's a classical pianist.”
“Why have I not heard about Caitlin
before?”
Jake takes the portrait from my hands
and stands it up on the dresser. We walk
back into the living room and sit down on
his leather couch. “I knew you were upset
about Nikki, so I didn't want to tell you
that I was … well … happily married.”
Married? The word hits me like a giant
wave, and suddenly I amslick with sweat.
“Mom actually tried to get you out of
that place in Baltimore for the Mass, but it
was when you were first admitted and they
wouldn't let you out. Mom didn't want me
to tell you about Caitlin yet, so I didn't at
first, but you're my brother, and now that
you're home, I wanted you to know about
my life, and Caitlin's the best part. I've
told her all about you and—if you want—you can meet her today. I had her go out
this morning while I broke the news to you.
I can call her now, and we can have lunch
before we go down to the Linc. So, do you
want to meet my wife?”
The next thing I know,  at a little
swanky café off South Street, sitting across
from a beautiful woman who holds my
brother's hand under the table and smiles
at me unceasingly. Jake and Caitlin carry
the conversation, and it feels a lot like
when I am with Veronica and Ronnie. Jake
answers most of the questions Caitlin asks
me, because I do not say much at all. No
mention is made of Nikki or my time at the
bad place or just how bizarre it is that
Caitlin has been married to my brother for
years, yet I had never met her. When the
waiter comes, I say  not hungry,
because I don't have very much money on
me—only the ten bucks my mother gave me
for the subway, since I already spent five
bucks on the PATCO ticket. But my brother
orders for all of us and says he is treating,
which is nice of him. We eat fancy ham
sandwiches with some sort of sun-dried
tomato paste, and when I finish, I ask
Caitlin if the ceremony was a nice one.
“What ceremony?” she says, and I catch
her looking at the little white scar above
my right eyebrow.
“Your wedding ceremony.”
“Oh,” she says, and then looks lovingly
at my brother. “Yes. It was really nice. We
had the Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral in
New York City and then a small reception
at the New York Palace.”
“How long have you been married?”
My brother shoots his wife a look that I
do not miss.
“A while now,” she says, which makes
me feel crazy because everyone present
knows that I do not remember the last
couple of years—and because she is a
woman, Caitlin knows exactly how long
she has been married to Jake. It is obvious
she is trying to protect me by being vague.
This makes me feel awful, even though I
realize Caitlin is trying to be kind.
My brother pays the bill, and we walk
Caitlin back to their apartment building.
Jake kisses his wife by the entrance door,
and his love for her is so obvious. But then
Caitlin kisses me right on the cheek, and
with her face only a few inches from mine,
she says, “ glad I finally got to meet
you, Pat. I hope we'll become good
friends.” I nod because I don't know what
else to say, and then Caitlin says, “Go
Baker!”
“It's Baskett, dummy,” Jake says, and
Caitlin blushes before they kiss again.
Jake hails a taxi and tells the driver,
“City Hall.”
In the taxi I tell my brother I don't have
any money to pay for the taxi ride, but he
says I never have to pay for anything when
I am with him, which is a nice thing to say,
but his saying it makes me feel sort of
strange.
Underneath City Hall, we buy subway
tokens, spin a turnstile, and then wait for
the southbound Orange Line.
Even though it is only 1:30 p.m. and
kickoff is not for seven hours yet, even
though it is a Monday, a day when most
people have to work, many men in Eagles
jerseys are already waiting on the
platform. This makes me realize that Jake
is not working today—it makes me realize
I do not even know what Jake does for a
living, which really starts to freak me out. I
think hard and remember that my brother
was a business major in college, but I
cannot remember where he works, so I ask
him.
“an options trader,” he says.
“What's that?”
“I play the stock market.”
“Oh,” I say. “So who do you work for?”
“Myself.”
“What do you mean?”
“I work for myself and do all my
business online. self-employed.”
“Which is why you could take off early
to hang out with me.”
“That's the best part about being selfemployed.”
I am very impressed with Jake's ability
to support himself and his wife by playing
the stock market, but he doesn't want to
talk about his work. He thinks  not
smart enough to understand what he does;
Jake doesn't even try to explain his work
to me.
“So what did you think of Caitlin?” he
asks me.
But the train comes, and we join the
herd of boarding Eagles fans before I can
answer.
“What did you think of Caitlin?” he asks
again after we find seats and the train starts
moving.
“She's great,” I say, avoiding eye
contact with my brother.
“You're mad at me for not telling you
about Caitlin right away.”
“No,  not.” I want to tell him all
about Tiffany following me when I run;
finding the “Pat” box; how Mom is still on
strike and dirty dishes are in the sink and
Dad turned his white shirts pink when he
did the wash; how my therapist Cliff says I
need to stay neutral and not get involved in
my parents' marital problems but only
focus on improving my own mental health
—but how can I do that when Dad and
Mom are sleeping in separate rooms and
Dad is always telling me to clean the house
and Mom is telling me to leave it filthy—and I was having a hard time keeping it
together before I found out my brother
plays the piano and trades stocks and is
living with a beautiful musician and I have
missed his gala wedding and therefore will
never see my brother marry, which is
something I very much wanted to see,
because I love my brother. But instead of
saying any of this, I say, “Jake,  sort of
worried about seeing that Giants fan
again.”
“Is that why you've been so quiet
today?” my brother asks, as if he has
forgotten all about what happened before
the last home game. “I doubt a Giants fan
will show up at the Green Bay game, but
we're going to set up in a different parking
lot anyway, just in case any of the
asshole's friends are looking for us. I got
your back. Don't worry. The fat guys are
setting up the tent in the lot behind the
Wachovia Center. No worries at all.”
When we arrive at Broad and Pattison, we
exit the subway car and climb back up into
the afternoon. I follow my brother through
the thin crowds of diehards who—like us
—have begun tailgating seven hours before
kickoff, on a Monday no less. We walk
past the Wachovia Center, and when the fat
men's green tent comes into view, I can't
believe what I see.
The fat men are outside of the tent with
Scott, and they are yelling at someone
hidden by their collective girth. A huge
school bus painted green—it's running,
and the driver is inching toward our tent.
On the hood of the bus is a portrait of
Brian Dawkins's bust, and the likeness is
incredible. (Dawkins is a regular Pro
Bowler who plays free safety for the
Birds.) As we get closer, I make out the
words the asian invasion along the side of
the bus, which is full of brown-faced men.
This early in the afternoon, parking spaces
are plentiful, so I wonder what the
argument is about.
Soon I recognize the voice, which
argues, “The Asian Invasion has been
parked in this very spot for every home
game since the Linc was opened. It's good
luck for the Eagles. We are Eagles fans,
just like you. Superstition or not, our
parking the Asian Invasion bus in this very
spot is crucial if you want the Birds to win
tonight.”
“We're not moving our tent,” Scott says.
“No fucking way. You should have gotten
here earlier.” The fat men reiterate Scott's
sentiment, and things are getting heated.
I see Cliff before he sees me. “Move the
tent,” I say to our friends.
Scott and the fat men turn to face me;
they look surprised by my command,
almost bewildered, as if I have betrayed
them.
My brother and Scott exchange a glance,
and then Scott asks, “Hank Baskett—destroyer of Giants fans—says, ‘Move the
tent'?”
“Hank Baskett says, ‘Move the tent,'” I
say.
Scott turns and faces Cliff, who is
shocked to see me. Scott says, “Hank
Baskett says, ‘Move the tent.' So we move
the tent.”
The fat guys groan, but they begin to
break down our tailgate party, and soon it
is moved three parking spaces over, along
with Scott's van, at which time the Asian
Invasion bus pulls forward and parks. Fifty
or so Indian men exit—each one of themwearing a green number 20 Dawkins
jersey. They are like a small army, and
soon, several barbecues are going and the
smell of curry is all around us.
Cliff played it cool and did not say hello
to me, which I realize was his way of
saying, “It's your call, Pat.” He simply
faded away into the other Dawkins jerseys,
so I would not have to explain our
relationship, which was kind of him.
When we have our tent resituated, when
the fat men are inside watching television,
Scott says, “Hey, Baskett. Why did you let
the dot heads have our parking spot?”
“None of themhave a dot on their head,”
I say.
“Did you know that little guy?” Jake
asks me.
“Which little guy, me?”
We turn around, and Cliff is standing
there with a sizzling platter of vegetables
and meat cubes skewered on sticks of
wood.
“Indian kabobs. Quite delicious. For
allowing us to park the Asian Invasion bus
in its usual spot.”
When Cliff lifts the platter up, we each
grab an Indian kabob, and the meat is
spicy, but delicious, as are the vegetables.
“And the men in the tent—would they
also like one?”
“Hey, fat-asses,” Scott yells. “Food.”
The fat men come out and partake. Soon
everyone is nodding and complimenting
Cliff on his delicious food.
“Sorry for the trouble,” Cliff says so
nicely.
He's been so kind—even after hearing
Scott call him a dot head—that I can't help
claiming Cliff as a friend, so I say, “Cliff,
this is my brother, Jake, my friend Scott,
and …” I forget the fat men's names, so I
just say, “Friends of Scott.”
“Shit,” Scott says. “You should have
just told us you were friends with Baskett
here and we wouldn't have given you any
trouble. You want a beer?”
“Sure,” Cliff says, putting the empty tray
down on the concrete.
Scott hands everyone a green plastic
cup, we all pour bottles of Yuengling
Lager, and then I am drinking beers with
my therapist. I am afraid Cliff will yell at
me for drinking when I am on medications,
but he doesn't.
“How do you guys know each other?”
one of the fat guys says, and then I realize
that by “you guys,” he means Cliff and me.
I am so happy to be drinking beers with
Cliff that I say, “He's my therapist,” before
I can remind myself to lie.
“And we are friends too,” Cliff quickly
adds, which surprises me but makes me
feel pretty good, especially since no one
says anything about my needing a therapist.
“What are your boys doing?” Jake asks
Cliff.
I turn around and see ten or so men
rolling out huge sheets of Astroturf.
“They are rolling out the Kubb fields.”
“What?” everyone says.
“Come on, I'll show you.”
And this is how we came to play what
Cliff calls the Swedish Viking game while
tailgating before Monday Night Football.
“Why do a bunch of Indians play a
Swedish Viking game?” one of the fat men
asks.
“Because it's fun,” Cliff replies, so
cool.
The Indian men are quick to share their
food and are also so knowledgeable
regarding Eagles football. They explain
Kubb, which is a game where you throw
wooden batons to knock down your
opponent's kubbs, which are wooden
blocks set up on opposite baselines. The
knocked-down kubbs get tossed to the
opponents' field and set up where they
land. To be truthful, I am still not exactly
sure how it all works, but I know the game
ends when you clean the opponents' field
of kubbs and knock down the kubb king,
which is the tallest block of wood, set up
in the center of the Astroturf.
Cliff surprises me by asking if he can be
my partner. All afternoon he tells me
which blocks to aim for, and we win many
games in between bouts of eating Indian
kabobs and drinking our Yuengling Lager
and the Asian Invasion's India Pale Ale
out of green plastic cups. Jake, Scott, and
the fat men assimilate into the Asian
Invasion tailgate party very nicely—we
have Indians in our tent, they have white
guys on their Kubb fields—and I think all
it really takes for different people to get
along is a common rooting interest and a
few beers.
Every so often one of the Indian men
yells “Ahhhhhhhh!” and when we all do the
chant, we are fifty or so men strong, and
our “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!” is
deafening.
Cliff is deadly with his wooden batons.
He mostly carries our team as we play
Kubb against various groupings of men, but
we end up winning the money tournament,
in which I did not even know we were
playing until we won. One of Cliff's boys
hands me fifty dollars. Cliff explains that
Jake paid my entry fee, so I try to give my
brother my winnings, but Jake will not let
me. Finally, I decide to buy rounds of beer
inside the Linc, and I stop arguing with my
brother over money.
After the sun sets, when it is just about
time to go into Lincoln Financial Field, I
ask Cliff if I can talk to him alone, and
when we walk away from the Asian
Invasion, I say, “Is this okay?”
“This?” he replies, and the glassy look
in his eyes suggests he is a little drunk.
“The two of us hanging out like boys.
What my friend Danny would call
‘representing.'”
“Why not?”
“Well, because you are my therapist.”
Cliff smiles, holds up a little brown
finger, and says, “What did I tell you?
When I amnot in the leather recliner …”
“You're a fellow Eagles fan.”
“Damn right,” he says, and then claps
me on the back.
After the game I catch a ride back to Jersey
on the Asian Invasion bus, and the Indian
men and I sing “Fly, Eagles, Fly” over and
over again because the Eagles have beaten
the Packers 31–9 on national television.
When Cliff's friends drop me off in front
of my house, it's after midnight, but the
funny driver, who is named Ashwini, hits
the horn on the Asian Invasion bus—a
special recording of all fifty members
screaming “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!”
I worry that maybe they have woken up
everyone in my neighborhood, but I can't
help laughing as the green bus pulls away.
My father is still awake, sitting on the
family-room couch watching ESPN. When
he sees me, he doesn't say hello, but loudly
begins to sing, “Fly, Eagles, fly. On the
road to victory …” So I sing the song one
more time with my father, and when we
finish the chant at the end, my dad
continues to hum the fight song as he
marches off to bed without so much as
asking me a single question about my day,
which has been extraordinary to say the
least, even if Hank Baskett only had two
catches for twenty-seven yards and has yet
to find the end zone. I think about cleaning
up my father's empty beer bottles, but I
remember what my mother told me about
keeping the house filthy while she is on
strike.
Downstairs, I hit the weights and try not
to think about missing Jake's wedding,
which still has me down some, even if the
Birds did win. I need to work off the beer
and the Indian kabobs, so I lift for many
hours.
Weathering the Relative Squalor
When I ask to see Jake's wedding pictures,
my mother plays dumb. “What wedding
pictures?” she asks. But when I tell her I
have met Caitlin—that we had lunch
together and I have already accepted my
sister-in-law's existence as fact—my
mother looks relieved and says, “Well
then, I guess I can hang up the wedding
photos again.”
She leaves me sitting in the living roomby the fireplace. When she returns, she
hands me a heavy photo album bound in
white leather and begins to stand large
frames up on the mantel—pictures of Jake
and Caitlin previously hidden for my
benefit. As I flip through the pages of my
brother's wedding album, Mom also hangs
up a few portraits of Jake and Caitlin on
the walls. “It was a beautiful day, Pat. We
all wished you were there.”
The massive cathedral and the plush
reception hall suggest that Caitlin's family
must have what Danny calls “mad
cheddar,” so I ask what Caitlin's father
does for a living.
“For years he was a violinist for the
New York Philharmonic, but now he
teaches at Juilliard. Music theory.
Whatever that means.” Mom has finished
hanging the framed pictures, and she sits
next to me on the couch. “Caitlin's parents
are nice people, but they're not really our
kind of people, which became painfully
obvious during the reception. How do I
look in the pictures?”
In the photos, my mother wears a
chocolate brown dress and a bloodred
sash over naked shoulders. Her lipstick
matches the sash perfectly, but it looks as
if she has on too much eye makeup, making
her look sort of like a raccoon. On the plus
side, her hair is in what Nikki used to call
“a classic updo” and looks pretty good, so
I tell Mom she photographs well, which
makes her smile.
Tension occupies my father's face; he
does not look comfortable in any of the
pictures, so I ask if he approves of Caitlin.
“She's from a different world as far as
your father's concerned, and he did not
enjoy interacting with her parents—at
all—but he's happy for Jake, in his own
non-expressive way,” Mom says. “He
understands that Caitlin makes your brother
happy.”
This gets me thinking about how strange
my father was at my own wedding,
refusing to speak to anyone unless he was
spoken to first and then answering
everyone with monosyllabic responses. I
remember being mad at my father during
the rehearsal dinner because he would not
even look at Nikki, let alone interact with
her family. I remember my mother and
brother telling me that Dad did not deal
well with change, but their explanation
meant nothing to me until the next day.
Halfway through the Mass, the priest
asked the congregation if they would hold
Nikki and me up in their prayers, and as
instructed, we turned to face the response.
I instinctively looked toward my parents,
curious to see if my father would say the
words “we will” like he was supposed to,
chanting along with everyone else, and this
is when I saw him wiping his eyes with a
tissue and biting down on his lower lip.
His whole body was trembling slightly, as
if he were an old man. It was the strangest
sight, my father crying during a wedding
that had seemed to make him so annoyed.
The very man who never showed any
emotions other than anger was crying. I
kept staring at my father, and when it
became obvious that I was not going to turn
back toward the priest, Jake—who was my
best man—had to give me a little nudge to
break the spell.
Sitting on the couch with my mother, I
ask her, “When were Caitlin and Jake
married?”
My mother looks at me strangely. She
doesn't want to mention the date.
“I know it happened when I was in the
bad place, and I also know that I was in the
bad place for years. I've accepted that
much.”
“Are you sure you really want to know
the date?”
“I can handle it, Mom.”
She looks at me for a second, trying to
decide what to do, and then says, “The
summer of 2004. August seventh. They've
been married for just over two years now.”
“Who paid for the wedding photos?”
My mother laughs. “Are you kidding
me? Your father and I never could have
afforded that fancy sort of wedding album.
Caitlin's parents were very generous,
putting together the album for us and
allowing us to blow up whatever photos
we wanted and—”
“Did they give you the negatives?”
“Why would they give us—”
She must see the look on my face,
because Momstops speaking immediately.
“Then how did you replace the photos
after that burglar came and stole all the
framed photos in the house?”
Mother is thinking how best to answer
as I wait for her response; she begins
chewing on the inside of her cheek the way
she sometimes does when she is anxious.
After a second, she calmly says, “I called
up Caitlin's mother, told her about the
burglary, and she had copies made that
very week.”
“Then how do you explain these?” I say
just before pulling framed wedding
pictures of Nikki and me out from behind
the pillow at the far end of the love seat.
When my mother says nothing, I stand and
return my wedding picture to its rightful
place on the mantel. Then on the wall by
the front window I rehang the picture of my
immediate family gathered around Nikki in
her wedding dress—her white train
spilling out across the grass toward the
camera. “I found the ‘Pat' box, Mom. If
you really hate Nikki so much, just tell me,
and I'll hang the pictures up in the attic,
where I sleep.”
Momdoesn't say anything.
“Do you hate Nikki? And if so, why?”
My mother will not look at me. She's
running her hands through her hair.
“Why did you lie to me? What else have
you lied about?”
“sorry, Pat. But I lied to …”
Mom does not tell me why she lied;
instead she starts to cry again.
For a very long time, I look out the
window and stare at the neighbors' house
across the street. Part of me wants to
comfort my mother—to sit down next to
her and throw an arm over her shoulders,
especially since I know my father has not
talked to her in more than a week and is
happily eating takeout three times a day,
doing his own laundry, and weathering the
relative squalor. I have caught Mom
cleaning here and there, and I know she is
a little upset about her plan not working
out like she hoped it would. But I am also
mad at my mother for lying to me, and even
though I am practicing being kind rather
than right, I can't find it in me to comfort
her right now.
Finally I leave Mom crying on the
couch. I change, and when I go outside for
a run, Tiffany is waiting.
As If He Were Yoda and I Were
Luke Skywalker Training on the
Dagobah System
When we finish discussing our Kubb
tournament victory and Mrs. Patel's
extraordinary ability to render an exact
likeness of Brian Dawkins's bust on the
hood of a school bus, I pick the black
recliner and tell Cliff I am a little
depressed.
“What's wrong?” he says, pulling the
lever and raising his footrest.
“Terrell Owens.”
Cliff nods, as if he were expecting me to
bring up the wide receiver's name.
I did not want to talk about this earlier,
but it was reported that Terrell Owens (or
T.O.) tried to kill himself on September
26. News reports stated that T.O.
overdosed on a pain medication. Later,
after T.O. was released from the hospital,
he said he did not try to kill himself, and
then everyone began to think he was crazy.
I remember T.O. as a young 49er, but
Owens was not on the 49ers' roster when I
watched the Eagles play in San Francisco
a few weeks ago. What I learned fromreading the sports pages was that T.O. had
played for the Eagles when I was in the
bad place, and he had helped the Birds get
to Super Bowl XXXIX, which I do not
remember at all. (Maybe this is good,
since the Eagles lost, but not remembering
still makes me feel crazy.) T.O. apparently
held out for more money the next year, said
bad things about Eagles QB Donovan
McNabb, was suspended for the second
half of the season, and then was actually
cut from the team, so he signed with the
very team Eagles fans hate most—the
Cowboys. And because of this, everyone
in Philadelphia currently hates T.O. more
than just about anyone else on the planet.
“T.O.? Don't worry about him,” Cliff
says. “Dawkins is going to hit him so hard
that Owens will be afraid to catch any
balls at the Linc.”
“ not worried about T.O. making
catches and scoring touchdowns.”
Cliff looks at me for a second, as if he
does not know how to respond, and then
says, “Tell me what worries you.”
“My father refers to T.O. as a
psychopathic pill popper. And on the
phone this week, Jake also made jokes
about T.O. taking pills, calling Owens a
nutter.”
“Why does this bother you?”
“Well, the reports I read in the sports
pages claimed that T.O. was possibly
battling depression.”
“Yes.”
“Well,” I say, “that would suggest
maybe he needs therapy.”
“And?”
“If Terrell Owens is really depressed or
mentally unstable, why do the people I
love use it as an excuse to talk badly about
him?”
Cliff takes a deep breath. “Hmmm.”
“Doesn't my dad understand that  a
psychopathic pill popper too?”
“As your therapist, I can confirm that
you are clearly not psychopathic, Pat.”
“But on all sorts of pills.”
“And yet you are not abusing your
medications.”
I can see what Cliff means, but he
doesn't really understand how I feel—which is a mix of very complicated and
hard-to-convey emotions, I realize—so I
drop the subject.
When the Dallas Cowboys come to
Philadelphia, the fat men's tent and the
Asian Invasion bus are combined to create
a super party that again features a Kubb
tournament on Astroturf, satellite
television, Indian kabobs, and much beer.
But I cannot concentrate on the fun,
because all around me is hatred.
The first things I notice are the
homemade T-shirts other tailgaters are
buying and selling and wearing. So many
different slogans and images. One has a
cartoon of a small boy urinating on the
Dallas star, and the caption reads dallas
sucks. t.o. swallows … pills. Another shirt
has a large prescription bottle with the
universal skull-and-crossbones poison
symbol on the label and terrell owens
written underneath. Yet another version
features the pill bottle on the front and a
gun on the back, under which the caption
reads T.O., if at first you don't succeed,
buy a gun. A nearby tailgater has nailed
T.O.'s old Eagles jersey to a ten-foot
cross, which is also covered with orange
prescription bottles that look exactly like
mine. People are burning their old T.O.
jerseys in the parking lot; human-size dolls
in T.O. jerseys are strung up so people can
hit them with bats. And even though I do
not like any Dallas Cowboy, I feel sort of
bad for Terrell Owens because maybe he
really is a sad guy who is having trouble
with his mind. Who knows, maybe he
really did try to kill himself? And yet
everyone mocks him, as if his mental
health is a joke—or maybe they want to
push him over the edge and would like
nothing more than to see T.O. dead.
Because of my poor throws, Cliff and I
get knocked out of the Kubb tournament
early, losing the five bucks my brother
fronted me, and this is when Cliff asks me
to help him move some India Pale Ale out
of the Asian Invasion bus. When we are
inside of the bus, he closes the door and
says, “What's wrong?”
“Nothing,” I say.
“You weren't even looking to see where
your batons landed, you were so distracted
during the Kubb games.”
I say nothing.
“What's wrong?”
“You're not in your leather seat.”
Cliff sits down, pats the bus seat, and
says, “Pleather will have to do today.”
I sit down in the seat across from Cliff
and say, “I just feel bad for T.O. That's
all.”
“He's getting millions of dollars to
endure this type of criticism. And he
thrives on it. He brings it on himself with
those touchdown dances and the hoopla.
And these people don't really want T.O. to
die; they just don't want him to performwell today. It's all in good fun.”
Now, I know what Cliff means, but it
doesn't seem like good fun to me. And
regardless of whether T.O. is a millionaire
or not,  not sure T-shirts encouraging
anyone to shoot himself in the head should
be condoned by my therapist. But I don't
say anything.
Back outside the bus I see that Jake and
Ashwini are in the final game of the Kubb
tournament, so I try to cheer for them and
block out the hatred that surrounds me.
Inside the Linc, all throughout the first half,
the crowd sings, “O.D.—O.D., O.D., O.D.
—O.D.—O.D.” Jake explains that the
crowd used to sing, “T.O.—T.O., T.O.,
T.O.—T.O.—T.O.” back when Owens
was an Eagle. I watch Owens on the
sideline, and even though he doesn't have
many catches yet, he seems to be dancing
to the rhythm of the crowd's O.D. song,
and I wonder if he is really so immune to
seventy thousand people mocking his near
overdose or if he really feels differently
inside. Again I can't help feeling bad for
the guy. I wonder what I would do if
seventy thousand people mocked my
forgetting the last few years of my life.
By halftime Hank Baskett has two
catches for twenty-five yards, but the
Eagles are losing 21–17.
All throughout the second half, Lincoln
Financial Field is alive; we Eagles fans
know that first place in the NFC East is at
stake.
With just under eight minutes to go in the
third, everything changes.
McNabb throws a long one down the
left side of the field. Everyone in my
section stands to see what will happen.
Number 84 catches the ball in Dallas
territory, puts a move on the defender,
takes off for the end zone, and then I am in
the air. Under me are Scott and Jake. 
riding high on their shoulders. Everyone in
our section is high-fiving me because Hank
Baskett has finally scored his first NFL
touchdown—an eighty-seven-yarder—and
of course I am wearing my Baskett jersey.
The Eagles are winning, and I am so happy
that I forget all about T.O. and start to think
about my dad watching at home on his huge
television, and I wonder if maybe the TV
cameras caught me when I was riding high
on Jake's and Scott's shoulders. Maybe
Dad saw a life-size me celebrating on his
flat screen, and maybe he is even proud.
A series of tense moments get our hearts
beating at the end of the fourth quarter,
when Dallas is driving, down 31–24. A
score will send the game into OT. But Lito
Sheppard intercepts Bledsoe and returns
the pick for a TD, and the whole stadiumsings the Eagles fight song and chants the
letters, and the day is ours.
When the clock ticks down, I look for
T.O. and see him sprint off the field and
into the locker room without even shaking
the hand of one single Eagle. I still feel
bad for him.
Jake and Scott and I exit the Linc and
run into the Asian Invasion—which is easy
to spot from far away because it consists
of fifty Indian men, usually clumped
together, all in Brian Dawkins jerseys.
“Just look for fifty number 20's,” they
always say. Cliff and I run up to each other
and high-five and screamand yell, and then
all fifty Indian men start chanting, “Baskett,
Baskett, Baskett!” And I am so happy; I
pick little Cliff up and hoist him onto my
shoulders and carry him back to the Asian
Invasion bus as if he were Yoda and I
were Luke Skywalker training on the
Dagobah System in the middle section of
The Empire Strikes Back, which is—as I
told you before—one of my all-time
favorite movies. “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S!
EAGLES!” we chant so many times as we
navigate the crowds and find our way back
to our spot behind the Wachovia Center,
where the fat men are waiting with icecold celebration beers. I keep hugging Jake
and high-fiving Cliff and chest bumping the
fat men and singing with the Indians. I amso happy. I amso impossibly happy.
When the Asian Invasion drops me off in
front of my house, it's late, so I ask
Ashwini not to blow the Eagles chant horn
and he reluctantly agrees—although when
the bus rounds the corner at the end of my
street, I hear fifty Indian men chant, “E!-
A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!” I can't help
smiling as I enter my parents' home.
I am ready for Dad. After such a big win
—a win that puts the Eagles in first place
—surely Dad will want to talk to me. But
when I enter the family room, no one is
there. No beer bottles on the floor, no
dishes in the sink. In fact, the whole house
looks spotless.
“Dad? Mom?” I say, but no one
answers. I saw both of their cars in the
driveway when I came home, so I am very
confused. I begin to climb the steps, and
the house is deadly quiet. I check my
bedroom, and my bed's made and the room
is empty. So I knock on my parents'
bedroom door, but no one answers. I push
the door open and immediately wish I
hadn't.
“Your father and I made up after the
Eagles victory,” Mom says with a funny
smile. “He aims to be a changed man.”
The sheet is pulled up to their necks, but
somehow I know my parents are naked
underneath the covers.
“Your boy Baskett healed the family,”
my father says. “He was a god out there on
the field today. And with the Eagles in first
place, I thought, Why not make up with
Jeanie?”
Still, I cannot speak.
“Pat, maybe you'd like to go for a run?”
my momsuggests. “Maybe just a little halfhour run?”
I close their bedroomdoor.
While I change into a tracksuit, I think I
hear my parents' bed squeak, and the house
seems to shake a little too. So I slip on my
sneakers and run down the stairs and out
the front door. I sprint across the park, run
around to the back of the Websters' house,
and knock on Tiffany's door. When she
answers, she's in some sort of nightgown
and her face looks confused.
“Pat? What are you—”
“My parents are having sex,” I explain.
“Right now.”
Her eyes widen. She smiles and then
laughs. “Just let me get changed,” she says,
and then shuts the door.
We walk for hours—all around
Collingswood. At first I ramble on and on
about T.O., Baskett, my parents, Jake, the
Asian Invasion, my wedding pictures, my
mother's ultimatum actually working—everything—but Tiffany does not say
anything in response. When I run out of
words, we simply walk and walk and
walk, and finally we are in front of the
Websters' house and it is time to say good
night. I stick my hand out and say, “Thanks
for listening.” When it is clear that
Tiffany's not going to shake, I start to walk
away.
“Turn around, bright eyes,” Tiffany says,
which is a very weird thing for her to say,
because my eyes are brown and very dull,
but of course I turn around. “ going to
give you something that will confuse you,
and maybe even make you mad. I don't
want you to open it until you are in a very
relaxed mood. Tonight is out of the
question. Wait a few days, and when you
are feeling happy, open this letter.” She
pulls a white business envelope out of her
jacket pocket and hands it to me. “Put it
away in your pocket,” she says, and I do as
I am told, mostly because Tiffany looks so
deathly serious. “I will not be running with
you until you give me your answer. I will
leave you alone to think. Regardless of
what you decide, you cannot tell anyone
about what is inside of that envelope.
Understand? If you tell anyone—even
your therapist—I'll know by looking in
your eyes, and I will never speak to you
again. It's best if you simply follow my
directions.”
My heart is pounding. What is Tiffany
talking about? All I want to do is open the
envelope now.
“You have to wait at least forty-eight
hours before you open that. Make sure you
are in a good mood when you read the
letter. Think about it, and then give me
your answer. Remember, Pat, I can be a
very valuable friend to you, but you do not
want me as an enemy.”
I remember the story Ronnie told me
about how Tiffany lost her job, and I begin
to feel very afraid.
I Will Have to Require a FirstPlace Victory
“Question number one,” my father says.
“How many touchdowns will McNabb
throw against the Saints?”
I can hardly believe I am actually eating
a sit-down meal with my father. Mom
smiles at me as she winds spaghetti around
her fork. She even shoots me a wink. Now
don't get me wrong, I am happy that
Mom's plan has worked out, and I am
delighted to be eating a meal with my
father, having a conversation even—and I
am especially happy to see my parents
playing with love again—but I also know
my father, and I worry that a single Eagles
loss will turn Dad back into a grump. I
worry for Mom, but decide to ride out the
moment.
“Ten touchdowns,” I tell my father.
Dad smiles, pops a small sausage into
his mouth, chews enthusiastically, and then
tells my mother, “Pat says ten
touchdowns.”
“Maybe eleven,” I add, just to be
optimistic.
“Question number two. How many
touchdowns will undrafted rookie
sensation Hank Baskett catch?”
Now, I fully realize that Baskett has only
caught one TD in the first five games, but I
also know my family is being overly
optimistic tonight, so I say, “Seven.”
“Seven?” Dad says, but smiling.
“Seven.”
“He says seven, Jeanie. Seven!” To me
Dad says, “Question number three. In what
quarter will quarterback Drew Brees
finally suffer a concussion because he has
been sacked so many times by the Eagles'
superior defense?”
“Um. That's a tough one. The third
quarter?”
“That is incorrect,” my father says,
shaking his head in mock disappointment.
“First quarter is the correct answer.
Question four. When are you going to bring
home that broad you're always running
with? When are you going to introduce
your girlfriend to your father?”
When Dad finishes asking question four,
he slurps a load of spaghetti into his mouth
and then begins chewing. When I fail to
respond, he encourages me with his left
hand, tracing invisible circles with his
index finger.
“Did you see that Pat found his wedding
pictures and put them back up in the living
room?” Mom says, and her voice sort of
quivers.
“Jake told me you were over Nikki,”
Dad says. “He said you were into this
Tiffany broad. No?”
“May I be excused?” I ask my mother,
because my little scar is itching, and I feel
as though I might explode if I don't start
banging my fist against my forehead.
When my mother nods, I see sympathy in
her eyes, which I appreciate.
I lift for a few hours, until I no longer
feel the need to punch myself.
In the new reflector vest my mother has
recently bought for me, I run through the
night.
I was going to open Tiffany's letter this
evening because I was so excited about
having dinner with my father, but now I
know I am most definitely not in a good
mood, so opening the letter would be a
violation of the rules Tiffany clearly laid
out for me two nights ago. I almost opened
the letter last night, when I was in an
excellent mood, but it hadn't been fortyeight hours.
As I run, I try to think about Nikki and
the end of apart time, which always makes
me feel better. I pretend that God has made
a bet with me and if I run fast enough, He
will bring Nikki back, so I begin sprinting
the last two miles of my run. Soon running so fast, it's amazing—faster than
any human being has ever run before. In my
mind I hear God tell me I have to do the
last mile in under four minutes, which I
know is almost impossible, but for Nikki I
try. I run even faster, and when I am a
block away, I hear God counting down
from ten in my mind. “Five—four—three
—two—” And when my right foot lands on
the first concrete square of my parents'
sidewalk, God says “One,” which means I
ran fast enough—that I made it home
before God said “Zero.” I am so happy. I
amso impossibly happy!
My parents' bedroom door is closed
when I go upstairs, so I shower and then
slip under my comforter. I pull Tiffany's
envelope from under the mattress of my
bed. I take a deep breath. I open the letter.
As I read the several typed pages, my mind
explodes with conflicting emotions and
awful needs.
Pat,
Read this letter start to finish! Do not
make any decisions until you have read
the entire letter! Do not read this letter
unless you are alone! Do not show this
letter to anyone! When you have finished
reading this letter, burn it—immediately!
Do you ever feel like you're living in a
powder keg and giving of sparks?
Well, there was nothing I could do to
bring my Tommy back, and the inability
to accept his death kept me ill for two
whole years—but then you came into my
life. Why? At first I thought, God is
sending me a new man, a replacement for
my Tommy, which made me mad, because
Tommy is irreplaceable (no of ense). But
when I listened to the way you talked
about Nikki, I realized God had sent you
to me so I might help you find the end of
apart time. This was to be my mission.
And so I have been working on it.
“What?” I can hear you saying right
now. “How can my friend Tif any end
apart time?”
Well, this is the part that might make
you mad.
Are you ready, Pat? Brace yourself.
I've been talking to your Nikki on the
phone—regularly. Every night for the
past two weeks. I got the phone number
from Veronica, who—through Ronnie's
conversations with your mom—has been
providing Nikki with information about
you ever since you were permanently
assigned to that neural health facility in
Baltimore. It turns out that your family
banned Nikki from obtaining information
about you, which they could do because
Nikki divorced you soon after you were
permanently admitted. I know this bit of
news has most likely upset you terribly.
Sorry, but it's best just to state things
plainly at this point. Don't you think?
Okay, this next part is bad too. Nikki
was able to divorce you because you
committed a crime, which you do not
remember. (I am not going to tell you
what that crime was, because you have
probably blocked it from your memory
intentionally; most likely, you are not yet
mentally ready to deal with this very
frightening reality. My therapist Dr. Lily
and I theorize that you will remember
committing this crime when you are
mentally and emotionally ready.) Nikki
was granted a divorce and all your
assets, and in exchange, someone else
dropped all charges against you. Of
course, the deal also sent you to the bad
place indefinitely for “rehabilitation.”
You agreed to all of the above at the time
and were deemed to be “of sound mind”
by your therapist Dr. Timbers, but soon
after being put away for good, you “lost”
your memory and your marbles as well.
I am not telling you all of this to be
mean—quite the contrary. Remember,
God put me in charge of helping you end
apart time. It turns out Nikki has wanted
to communicate with you very much. She
misses you. This is not to say she wants to
marry you all over again. I want to be
clear about this. She still remembers
what you did—the crime you committed.
And she is a little afraid of you as well, as
she fears you might be mad at her and
want to retaliate. But she was married to
you for years and she wants to see you
well, and maybe even become friends
again. I have reported your desire to
reconcile with Nikki. To be honest, your
desire is much stronger than hers. But
you never know what might happen if you
begin to communicate again.
Two problems: One. After you
committed that crime, Nikki took out a
restraining order against you, so
technically it is illegal for you to contact
her. Two. Your parents—on your behalf,
and probably in retaliation—took out a
restraining order against Nikki, claiming
any contact she made could jeopardize
your mental health. So it is also illegal
for her to contact you. Even still, Nikki
would like to communicate with you, if
only to smooth over what happened. Her
guilt is glaring. She walked away with all
your assets, and you had to spend years
in a mental institution, right?
So. Coming to the point. I am of ering
myself as a liaison. The two of you can
communicate through me, and there will
be no trouble. You will be able to write
Nikki letters—one every two weeks. I will
read these letters to Nikki over the phone.
She will be able to dictate her responses
to me, again over the phone, which I will
type up on my laptop, print out, and
present to you.
Pat, we are friends, and I value our
friendship very much. That having been
said, you must appreciate that what I am
of ering puts me in a very precarious
position. If you decide to take me up on
my of er, I would be putting myself at risk
legally, and also I would be jeopardizing
our friendship. I need to inform you that I
will not be your liaison for free, but am
of ering you a trade.
What do I want?
Remember when I said I was scouting
you?
Well, I want to win this year's Dance
Away Depression competition, and I need
a strong man to do it. “What is Dance
Away Depression?” I hear you asking.
Well—it is an annual competition
organized by the Philadelphia
Psychiatric Association that allows
women diagnosed with clinical
depression to transform their despair into
movement. The sole focus is supposed to
be diminishing depression through use of
the body, but judges award a wreath of
flowers to the second-best dance routine
and a golden trophy to the first-place
dance routine. Dancing solo, I have won
that fucking wreath two years straight,
and this year I want to win the golden
trophy. This is where you figure in, Pat.
God sent me the strongest man I have
ever met in my entire life; tell me this
isn't divine intervention. Only a man with
your muscles could perform the type of
lifts I have in mind—award-winning lifts,
Pat. The competition will be held at the
Plaza Hotel in center city, on a Saturday
night—November 11th. Which gives us
just under a month to practice. I know the
routine already, but you'll be starting
from scratch, and we both will have to
practice the lifts. This will take a lot of
time.
I told Nikki about my conditions, and
she wants to encourage you to be my
dance partner. She says you need to
broaden your interests, and that she had
always wanted to take dance lessons with
you. So it is more than okay with her; she
encourages you to do this.
Also,  afraid I will have to require a
first-place victory in exchange for being
your liaison. Lucky for you, the routine I
have choreographed is first-rate. But in
order to win, you will have to immerse
yourself in dance. Below are the nonnegotiable conditions.
Should you decide to be my dance
partner, you will:
1. Give up Eagles football for the
duration of our training. No going to
games. No watching games on
television. No discussing Eagles
football with anyone. No reading the
sports pages. You may not even wear
your beloved Baskett jersey.
2. End your weight training by two
o'clock each afternoon, at which
point we will go for a five-mile run,
after which we will rehearse from
4:15 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. on weekdays.
On weekends we will rehearse from
1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. No
exceptions.
3. Make sure at least 15 of your friends
and relatives attend the dance
recital, because the judges are often
swayed by applause.
4. Do whatever I say without asking
any questions.
5. Assure I win the competition.
6. MOST IMPORTANTLY: Tell no one
about our arrangement. You can tell
people you are training for a dance
competition, but you cannot tell
anyone about my demands and my
contacting Nikki on your behalf—
never ever.
Should you meet all six demands, I will
act as a liaison between Nikki and you; I
will attempt to end apart time, and then
who knows what will happen between you
and your ex-wife. If you fail to meet my
demands, I am afraid you might never
talk to Nikki again. She says this is your
only shot.
Contact me within 24 hours with your
decision. Reread my list of demands,
memorize each, and then burn this letter.
Remember, if you want me to be your
liaison, tell no one I am in contact with
Nikki.
With best intentions,
Tif any
I reread the letter over and over all night.
Parts I do not want to believe are true—especially the parts about my committing a
crime and Nikki divorcing me, which are
ideas that make me feel like smashing my
fist against my forehead. What type of
crime would put me in such a situation, and
who would drop charges when I checked
myself into a neural health facility? I can
understand Nikki's divorcing me because I
was a bad husband, especially because,
well, I was a bad husband. But I have a
hard time believing I actually committed a
crime that could result in such drastic legal
measures. And yet Tiffany's letter seems to
explain so much—my mother's taking
down my wedding pictures, all the awful
things Jake and Dad said about Nikki. If I
am really divorced, everything my family
has done to keep Nikki out of my memory
would have been for my protection,
especially since they are not optimistic
enough to realize that I am not dead and
therefore still have at least a shot at getting
Nikki back, which I don't have to tell you
is the silver lining to the letter.
Of course, I cannot be sure about
anything, since I have no memory of the
past few years. Maybe Tiffany made up the
story just to get me to perform in her dance
competition. This is possible. I certainly
would not have volunteered to be her
partner, even if I am practicing being kind
now. I realize that Tiffany's letter might be
a trick, but the possibility of
communicating with Nikki is too good to
chance—as it may be my last opportunity.
Also, Tiffany's mentioning God's will
seems to suggest that she understands what
apart time is all about. It makes sense that
Nikki would want me to take dancing
lessons. She always wanted me to dance
with her, but I never did. The thought of
dancing with Nikki in the future is enough
to make me accept that I will be missing
the three Eagles games before the bye
week, including the home game against
Jacksonville. I think about how angry this
will make my father, Jake, and maybe even
Cliff, but then I think about the possibility
of finally living out the happy ending to my
movie—getting Nikki back—and the
choice is obvious.
When the sun comes up, I open the
window in the downstairs bathroom, burn
the letter over the toilet, and flush the
charred remains. Next, I run across
Knight's Park, jog around the Websters'
house, and knock on Tiffany's door. She
answers in a red silk nightgown, squinting
at me. “Well?”
“When do we start training?” I ask.
“Are you ready to commit fully? Ready
to give up every-thing—even Eagles
football?”
I nod eagerly. “Only I can't miss my
therapy sessions on Fridays, because some
judge will send me back to the bad place if
I do, and then we won't be able to win the
competition.”
“I'll be outside your house tomorrow at
two o'clock,” Tiffany says, and then shuts
the door.
The first floor of Tiffany's in-law suite
is a dance studio. All four walls are
completely covered by full-length mirrors,
and three have railings like you see
ballerinas using. The floor is hardwood,
like a pro-basketball court, only without
any painted lines and with a lighter
varnish. The ceiling is high, maybe thirty
feet tall, and a spiral staircase in the
corner leads to Tiffany's apartment.
“I had this built when Tommy died,”
Tiffany says. “I used the insurance money.
Do you like my studio?”
I nod.
“Good, because it's going to be home
for the next month. Did you bring your
photograph?”
I open the bag that Tiffany instructed me
to bring and pull out my framed picture of
Nikki; I show it to Tiffany, and then she
walks over to the stereo system behind the
spiral staircase. From an iron hook on the
wall she removes a pair of headphones—the kind that cover your entire ears like
earmuffs—and brings them to me. A very
long cord is attached.
“Sit,” she says. I drop to the floor and
sit with my legs crossed. “ going to
play our song, the one we are going to
dance to. It's important that you feel a deep
connection with this song. It needs to move
you if it's going to flow through your body.
I've picked this song for a reason. It's
perfect for both of us, which you'll soon
see. When I put the headphones on you, I
want you to stare into Nikki's eyes. I want
you to feel the song. Understand?”
“It's not a song played by a soprano
saxophonist, is it?” I ask, because Kenny G
is my nemesis, as you know.
“No,” she says, and then places the
headphones on my ears. My ears are
enveloped in the padding. Wearing the
headphones makes me feel as if I am alone
in this large room, even though if I look up,
Tiffany will be there. With the frame in my
hands, I stare into Nikki's eyes, and soon
the song begins to play.
Piano notes—slow and sad.
Two voices taking turns singing.
Pain.
I know the song.
Tiffany was right. It is the perfect song
for both of us.
The song builds, the voices become
more emotional, and everything inside of
my chest starts to hurt.
The words express exactly what I have
felt since I was released from the bad
place.
And by the chorus, I am sobbing,
because the woman singing seems to feel
exactly what I am feeling, and her words,
and her emotion, and her voice …
The song ends with the same sad piano
notes that began the number. I look up and
realize that Tiffany has been watching me
cry, and I begin to feel embarrassed. I set
my photo of Nikki down on the floor and
cover my face with my hands. “ sorry.
Just give me a second.”
“It's good that the song makes you cry,
Pat. Now we just have to transform those
tears into motion. You need to cry through
your dancing? Understand?”
I do not understand, but I nod anyway.
My Movie's Montage
Explaining how I learned Tiffany's routine
and became an excellent dancer would be
difficult—mostly because our rehearsals
are long and grueling and extremely
boring. We do the same little things over
and over again endlessly. For example, if I
had to lift a finger in the air for the routine,
Tiffany would make me do it a thousand
times every single day until I could do it to
her liking on command. So I will spare you
most of the boring details. To make things
even more complicated, Tiffany has
forbidden me to document our rehearsals
in any thorough manner that would allow
others to steal her training techniques. As
she wants to open up a studio someday, she
is very guarded about her methods—and
her choreography too.
Luckily, as I am starting to write this
part, I remember that in every one of his
films, whenever Rocky needs to become a
better boxer, they show clips of him doing
one-arm push-ups, running on the beach,
punching slabs of meat, running the stairs
of the art museum, gazing at Adrian
lovingly, or being yelled at by Mickey or
Apollo Creed or even Paulie—all while
his theme song plays, which is perhaps the
greatest song in the world, “Gonna Fly
Now.” In the Rocky movies, it only takes a
few minutes to cover weeks of training,
and yet the audience still understands that a
lot of preparation went into the actual
development of Rocky's boxing skills,
even though we only get to see a few clips
of the Italian Stallion working hard.
During a therapy session, I ask Cliff
what this movie technique is called. He
has to call his wife, Sonja, on his cell
phone, but she knows the answer and tells
us that what I am trying to describe is
called a montage. So that is what I am now
going to create below, my movie's
montage. Maybe you'll want to play
“Gonna Fly Now” on your CD player, if
you have a copy handy—or you could put
on any song you find inspiring—and read
along to the music. Music is not required,
however. Okay, here it is, my montage:
In anticipation of our big performance,
 running a little faster with Tiffany
every day. We push ourselves, and when
we get to the park, we sprint the last mile
to her house and get really sweaty. I
always beat Tiffany, because I am a man,
yes, but also because I am an excellent
runner.
See me pumping iron: bench press, leg
lifts, sit-ups on the Stomach Master 6000,
bike riding, squats, knuckle push-ups, curls
—the works.
“Crawl!” Tiffany yells. So I crawl on
the hardwood floor of her dance studio.
“Crawl like you have no legs and you
haven't eaten for two weeks and there's a
single apple in the middle of the room and
another man with no legs is also crawling
toward the apple. You want to crawl
faster, but you cannot, because you are
maimed. Desperation flows out of your
face like sweat! You are so afraid you will
not get to the apple before the other legless
man! He will not share the apple with—no,
no, no. Stop! You're doing it all wrong!
Jesus Christ, Pat! We only have four weeks
left!”
“Jeanie,” I hear my father say. He is in
the kitchen eating his breakfast. I am on the
basement stairs listening. “Why does Pat
close his eyes and hum every time I
mention the Eagles? Is he going crazy
again? Should I be concerned?”
“What's this I hear about you missing the
Saints game?” Jake says through the
telephone when I call him back sometime
after 11:00 p.m. He has called two nights
in a row, and the note my mother left for
me on my pillow read Call your brother
back no matter how late. IMPORTANT.
“Don't you want to see what Baskett does
this week? Why are you humming?”
“When you are a dancer, you are
allowed to put your hands anywhere on
your partner's body, Pat. It's not sexual. So
when you do this first lift, yes, your hands
will be cradling my ass and crotch. Why
are you pacing? Pat, it's not sexual—it's
modern dance.”
See me pumping iron: bench press, leg
lifts, sit-ups on the Stomach Master 6000,
bike riding, knuckle push-ups, curls—the
works.
“ Okay, Pat.  fucking fine. You're
going to drop me a few times while we're
learning the lifts, but it's not because
you're not strong enough. You need to
center your palm directly at the base of my
crotch. If you need me to get more specific,
I will. Here. I'll show you. Put out your
hand.”
“Your mother tells me you will not
discuss Eagles football with your—why
are you humming?” Cliff asks. “I did not
mention that certain saxophonist's name.
What's this all about?”
“I never thought I would say this, but
maybe you should consider taking a break
from your dance training and watch the
game with Jake and your dad,” my mother
says. “You know I hate football, but you
and your father seemed to be making a
connection, and Jake and you are just
getting back to being brotherly again. Pat,
please stop humming.”
“For the second lift you need to look up
at me, Pat. Especially just before I go into
the flip. You don't have to look at my
crotch, but you have to be ready to push up
so I'll get more height. If you don't give me
a push when I bend my knees, I won't be
able to complete the flip and will probably
crack my head open on the floor.”
“I know you can hear me through the
humming, Pat. Look at you!” my father
says. “Curled up in your bed, humming like
a child. Birds lose by a field goal in New
Orleans, and your boy Baskett had zero
catches. Zilch. Don't think your dancing
through the game didn't affect the
outcome.”
“You look like a retarded snake! You
are supposed to crawl with your arms—not slither or wiggle or whatever the fuck
you are doing down there. Here. Watch
me.”
In anticipation of our big performance,
 running a little faster with Tiffany
every day. We push ourselves, and when
we get to the park, we sprint the last mile
to her house and get really sweaty. I
always beat Tiffany, because I am a man,
yes, but also because I am an excellent
runner.
“What's Tiffany holding over you?”
Ronnie says. We are in my parents'
basement. I have already spotted him as he
benched one wimpy sixty-pound rep, and
now he is taking a break. This is a surprise
visit disguised to look like a prework
lifting session. “I told you to protect
yourself.  telling you, Pat, you don't
know what that woman is capable of. My
sister-in-law is capable of anything.
Anything!”
“You're making the sun with your
arms. In the center of the stage, you
represent the sun. And when you make the
huge circle with your arms, it has to be
slow and deliberate—just like the sun. The
dance is one day's worth of sun. You are
going to rise and set all onstage—to the
flow of our song. Understand?”
“I want you to talk to Tiffany and tell her
it's important for you to watch the Eagles
game with your father,” Momsays. “Please
stop humming, Pat. Please, just stop
humming!”
“The second lift is the hardest by far, as
it requires you to go from a squatting
position to a standing position with me
standing on your hands, which will be just
above your shoulders. Do you think you're
strong enough to do this, because we can
do something else if you are too weak, but
let's try it now and we'll just see.”
“Why is this dance competition so
important to you?” Cliff asks me. I look up
at the sun painted on the ceiling of his
office and smile. “What?” he says.
“The dancing lets me be that,” I say, and
point up.
Cliff's eyes follow my finger. “It lets
you be the sun?”
“Yes,” I say, and smile again at Cliff,
because I really like being the sun, exactly
what allows clouds to have a silver lining.
Also, being the sun is what will provide
me with the opportunity to write letters to
Nikki.
“Please stop humming into the phone,
Pat.  on your side here. I understand
wanting to learn an art for a woman. Don't
you remember my playing the piano for
you? But the difference is that Caitlin
would never ask me to miss an Eagles
game, because she knows it's more than
just football to me. I can hear you fucking
humming through the phone, Pat, but just going to keep talking, all right? You're
acting crazy, you know. And if the Eagles
lose tomorrow against the Buccaneers,
Dad is going to think you cursed the
Birds.”
“Okay, you know your routine—roughly, anyway. So now I want you to
watch mine. I'll say ‘lift' when it's time
for one of your lifts, just so you know
when they're coming. But don't worry,
because as long as you do your routine, I'll
make sure we link up with the lifts. Okay?”
Tiffany is in tights and a T-shirt like
every other day, but she transforms her
face just before she pushes play on the CD
player. So solemn. Those sad piano notes
and those two dueling voices fill the room,
and Tiffany begins to dance beautifully but
sadly. Her body moves so gracefully, and
it is only now that I understand what she
means by crying through movement. She
jumps, she rolls, she spins, she runs, she
slides. She yells “Lift!” and then falls to
the floor dead, only to explode upward in
resurrection when the music picks up
again. And her dancing is one of the most
beautiful things I have ever seen. I could
watch her dance for the rest of my life, and
strangely, watching Tiffany soar around the
dance floor makes me feel like I amfloating over waves with baby Emily.
Tiffany is that good.
“Your father has stopped eating dinner
with me, Pat. He's not taking walks with
me either. Ever since the Eagles lost to the
Buccaneers, he's back to his—Pat, please
stop humming. Pat!”
In anticipation of our big performance,
 running a little faster with Tiffany
every day. We push ourselves, and when
we get to the park, we sprint the last mile
to her house and get really sweaty. I
always beat Tiffany, because I am a man,
yes, but also because I am an excellent
runner.
“I don't think you understand how much
this means to my sister,” Veronica says,
and I am shocked to see her and baby
Emily in my basement gym. “Do you know
that since Tommy passed, she has never
asked her family to see her dance? In fact,
for two years she's banned us from
attending any of her performances. But this
year she thinks she is going to performflawlessly enough to invite her family—she's convinced, in fact—and while I am
glad to see her so happy, afraid to even
think about what she might do if you guys
screw up the performance. She's not a
stable person, Pat. You do understand that,
right? You do understand that your
performing poorly will result in months of
serious depression? So I need to ask you
how are the rehearsals really going? Do
you truly think you can win? Do you?”
Before I turn off the lights, I stare into
framed-picture Nikki's eyes. I see her
freckled nose, her strawberry blond hair,
her full lips. I kiss her so many times.
“Soon,” I say. “ doing everything I can.
I won't let you down. Remember
—‘Forever's gonna start tonight.'”
See me pumping iron: bench press, leg
lifts, sit-ups on the Stomach Master 6000,
bike riding, knuckle push-ups, curls—the
works.
“The Asian Invasion will pick you up
at—” Cliff nods at me and smiles. “Ah, the
humming again. Your mother tells me you
won't talk to anyone about Eagles football,
but you aren't seriously going to miss a
home game, are you?”
“The most important thing is to make
the lifts look effortless, as if you are
holding up air. I should appear to be
floating. Understand? Good, because I
need you to stop shaking during the routine,
Pat. You look like you have fucking
Parkinson's disease, for Christ's sake.”
“How does a four-and-one team lose
three games straight?” Dad yells down
from the top of the basement steps. “A
team that beat the Dallas Cowboys
handily? A teamwith a first-ranked offense
and more sacks than any other team in the
league? You can humall you want, Pat. But
that don't change the fact that you took the
good luck away from the Birds and are
ruining our season!”
See me pumping iron: bench press, leg
lifts, sit-ups on the Stomach Master 6000,
bike riding, knuckle push-ups, curls—the
works.
“Okay. Not bad. You got the crawling
down, and one of the lifts doesn't look
awful anymore. But we only have a week
left. Can we do this? Can we do this?”
“I bought you a present,” Tiffany tells
me. “Go into the powder room and try it
on.”
In her studio's washroom, I remove a
pair of yellow tights from a plastic bag.
“What's this?” I call out to Tiffany.
“It's your outfit. Put it on, and we'll
have a dress rehearsal.”
“Where's the shirt?”
“Again,” Tiffany says, even though it is
10:41 p.m. and my elbows feel as though
they might explode. I am dancing on raw
nerves. I amdancing on bone. “Again!”
Eleven fifty-nine p.m. “Again,” Tiffany
says, and then takes her place at the left
side of the studio. Knowing that arguing is
no use, I drop to the floor and prepare to
crawl.
“This might tickle some,” Tiffany says
just before she slides her pink lady razor
through the shaving cream coating my
chest, and then she shows me how much
hair is in the teacup she rinses the blade in.
I am lying on a yoga mat in the middle of
her dance studio. My chest is covered with
some sort of green aloe shaving gel that
turns white when you make foam. Being
shaved by Tiffany sort of makes me feel
strange, as I have never been shaved by a
woman before and have never had my
torso shaved at all. When she lathers me
up, I close my eyes, and my fingers and
toes tingle wildly.
I sort of giggle each time she shaves a
line of hair off my chest.
I sort of giggle each time she shaves a
line of hair off my back.
“We want those muscles to gleam like
the sun onstage, right?”
“Why can't I just wear a shirt?” I say,
even though—in a weird sort of way—I
secretly enjoy being shaved by Tiffany.
“Does the sun wear a shirt?”
The sun does not wear yellow tights
either, but I do not say so.
In anticipation of our big performance,
 running a little faster with Tiffany
every day. We push ourselves, and when
we get to the park, we sprint the last mile
to her house and get really sweaty. I
always beat Tiffany, because I am a man,
yes, but also because I am an excellent
runner.
Two days before the competition, just
before we are about to perform the routine
for the twenty-fifth time that day—twentyfive being Tiffany's favorite number—she
says, “We need to do this flawlessly.”
So I try my best, and as I watch bits of
our routine in the mirrors that surround us,
I think, We really are dancing flawlessly! I
am so excited when we finish, because I
know we will win—especially since we
have improved ourselves so much with
sacrifice and hard training. This minimovie will have a happy ending for sure!
But something about Tiffany's demeanor
is off as we take our water break. She is
not yelling at me, nor is she using the fword, so I ask, “What's wrong?”
“How many people did you recruit to
come to the competition?”
“I asked everyone I know.”
“Veronica tells me your family is mad at
you for abandoning the Eagles.”
“Not my mom.”
“ worried that if we don't get enough
fans there to cheer for us, the judges might
be swayed by another dancer's larger fan
base. We might not win, and then I would
not be able to act as your liaison, Pat.”
“Maybe if you are not doing anything
tomorrow night, you might want to bring
your wife and children to my dance
recital,” I tell Cliff. “We've really got a
good routine, and I think we can win if
only we have enough audience support,
and I don't think that my father or brother
will be likely to show up, so—”
“After tomorrow night, you'll be done
with these long rehearsals?”
“Yeah.”
“So you will be able to go to the
Redskins game on—”
“Hmmmmmm.”
“Just tell me this, if I go to the dance
recital, will you go to the Eagles game
with us on Sunday? The Asian Invasion
misses you, and truthfully, we sort of feel
like you've cursed the Eagles by
abandoning them mid-season. Poor Baskett
has only caught two balls in the last three
games and had zero catches last week. And
the Birds have lost three straight. We miss
you down at the Linc, Pat.”
“I can't talk about that subject until my
dance recital is over tomorrow night. I can
only say that I need to recruit as many
people as possible to cheer for Tiffany and
me so the judges will be swayed. Let me
just say that winning is really important,
and Tiffany says that crowd reaction can
sway the judges.”
“If I come, will you talk to me about
that-thing-you-are-not-allowed-to-talkabout after your performance?”
“Cliff, I can't talk about that until after
the performance.”
“Well then, neither can I tell you
whether I will be at your performance,”
Cliff says.
At first I think he is bluffing, but he
doesn't bring up the subject again, and by
the end of our therapy session I feel as
though I have blown my shot at getting
Cliff to bring his wife to my recital, which
makes me feel very depressed.
Hello, you've reached Jake and
Caitlin's machine. Please leave a
message after the beep. Beep.
“Jake. Sorry to call so late, but I just got
done rehearsing. I know that you are mad
at me because you think I jinxed thosepeople-who-make-me-hum-at-the-present-
moment, but if you bring Caitlin to my
dance recital, there's a chance I might be
able to do that thing we used to do on
Sundays, especially if you cheer for
Tiffany and me very loudly. We need
people to cheer for us, because the judges
are sometimes swayed by the audience. It's
really important that we win this
competition. So as your brother,  asking
you to please bring your wife to the Plaza
—”
Beep.
I hang up and redial the number.
Hello, you've reached Jake and
Caitlin's machine. Please leave a
message after the beep. Beep.
“That's the Plaza Hotel at—”
“Hello? Is everything okay?”
It's Caitlin's voice, which makes me
nervous, so I hang up, fully realizing I have
blown my shot at getting Jake to come to
my dance recital.
“Pat, you know I'll be there. And I'll
cheer so loudly for you, but winning isn't
everything,” my mom says. “It's the fact
that you were able to learn to dance in only
a few weeks that is impressive.”
“Just ask Dad, okay?”
“I will. But I don't want you to get your
hopes up. A dance recital is not something
he would have attended even if the Eagles
won the last three games.”
Like a Shadow on Me All of the
Time
Veronica drops us off in front of the Plaza
Hotel on Saturday, saying, “Break a leg,”
just before she pulls away. I follow
Tiffany into the lobby, where four towers
of water shoot out of a large fountain—at
least ten feet up in the air. Real fish swim
around in the pool of water, and signs read
do not throw coins into the fountain.
Tiffany has been here before. She walks
right past the information desk and leads
me through a maze of hallways with gold
wallpaper and swanky-looking light
fixtures that are all large bronze fish with
lightbulbs in their mouths. Finally, we find
the hall where the dance recital will take
place.
Red curtains frame a large stage. A huge
banner hangs high above the dance floor; it
reads dance away depression. We try to
register at a desk, and it becomes obvious
that we are the first contestants to show up,
because the fat woman who is in charge of
registration says, “Registration is not for
another hour.”
We sit down in the last row of seats. I
look around. A huge chandelier dangles
above us, and the ceiling is not just a
regular ceiling, but has all sorts of plaster
flowers and angels and other fancy things
sticking out of it. Tiffany is nervous. She
keeps cracking her knuckles. “Are you
okay?” I ask.
“Please don't talk to me before the
performance. It's bad luck.”
So I sit there and start to get nervous
myself, especially since I have a lot more
riding on this competition than Tiffany
does, and she is obviously rattled. I try not
to think about losing my chance to send
Nikki a letter, but of course this is all I can
think about.
When other contestants begin to arrive, I
notice that most of them look like high
school students, and I think this is strange,
but I do not say anything—mostly because I
amnot allowed to talk to Tiffany.
We register, give our music to the sound
guy, who remembers Tiffany from last
year, I know, because he says, “You
again?” After Tiffany nods, we are
backstage, changing. Thankfully,  able
to slip into my tights before any of the
other contestants make it backstage.
In the far corner,  minding my own
business, sitting with Tiffany, when an ugly
woman waddles over and says to Tiffany,
“I know you dancers are pretty liberal
about your bodies. But do you really
expect me to allow my teenage daughter to
change in front of this half-naked man?”
Tiffany is really nervous now. I know
because she does not curse out this ugly
woman, who reminds me of the nurses in
the bad place, especially since she is so
out of shape and has a poofy old-lady
haircut.
“Well?” the momsays.
I see a storage closet on the other side of
the room. “How about I go in there while
everyone else changes?”
“Fine with me,” the woman says.
Tiffany and I enter the supply closet,
which is full of abandoned costumes fromwhat must have been a children's show—
all sorts of pajama-looking suits that
would make me look like a lion or a tiger
or a zebra if I put one on. A dusty box of
percussion instruments—tambourines,
triangles, cymbals, and wooden sticks you
bang together—reminds me of the music
room in the bad place and music relaxation
class, which I attended until I was kicked
out. And then I have this terrifying thought:
What if one of the other contestants is
dancing to a Kenny G song?
“You need to find out what songs the
other dancers are performing to,” I tell
Tiffany.
“I told you not to talk to me before the
performance.”
“Just find out whether anyone is dancing
to any songs played by a smooth jazz
performer whose initials are K.G.”
After a second she says, “Kenny—”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
“Jesus Christ,” Tiffany says, but then
stands and leaves the closet.
Ten minutes later she returns. “No music
by that person,” Tiffany says, and then sits
down.
“Are you sure?”
“I said no Kenny G.”
I close my eyes, hum a single note, and
silently count to ten, blanking my mind.
We hear a knock, and when Tiffany opens
the door, I see that many moms are
backstage now. The woman who knocked
tells Tiffany that all the dancers have
checked in and are changed. When I leave
the storage closet, I am shocked to see that
Tiffany and I are the oldest contestants by
at least fifteen years. We are surrounded
by teenage girls.
“Don't let their innocent looks fool
you,” Tiffany says. “They're all little pit
vipers—and extraordinarily gifted
dancers.”
Before the audience arrives, we are
given a chance to practice on the Plaza
Hotel stage. We nail our routine perfectly,
but most of the other dancers also nail their
impressive routines as well, which makes
me worry we will not win.
Just before the competition begins, the
contestants are brought out before the
crowd. When Tiffany and I are announced,
we take the stage, wave, and the applause
is mild. The lights make it hard to see, but I
spot Tiffany's parents in the front row,
seated with little Emily, Ronnie, Veronica,
and a middle-aged woman who I guess is
Dr. Lily, Tiffany's therapist, because
Tiffany told me that her therapist would be
in attendance. I scan the rest of the rows
quickly as we walk offstage, but I do not
see my mother. No Jake. No Dad. No Cliff.
I catch myself feeling sad, even though I
did not really expect anyone but Mom to
show up. Maybe Mom is out there
somewhere, I think, and the thought makes
me feel a little better.
Backstage, in my mind I admit that the
other contestants received more applause
than we did, which means their fan bases
are larger than ours. Even though the
woman who announced us is now giving a
speech, saying this is a showcase and not a
competition, I worry that Tiffany will not
get the golden trophy, which would kill my
chance to write Nikki letters.
We are scheduled to perform last, and
as the other girls do their numbers, the
applause ranges from mild to enthusiastic,
which surprises me, because during the
preshow rehearsal, I thought all the
routines were excellent.
But right before we are set to dance,
when little Chelsea Chen concludes her
ballet number, the applause is thunderous.
“What did she do out there to get such
good applause?” I ask Tiffany.
“Don't talk to me before the
performance,” she says, and I start to feel
very nervous.
The woman in charge of the recital
announces our names, and the applause is a
little livelier than what we received before
the competition. Right before I lie down at
the back of the stage, I look to see if maybe
Jake or Cliff showed up late, but all I see
when I look out into the audience is the hot
white from the spotlights that are on me.
Before I have a chance to think, the music
starts.
Piano notes—slow and sad.
I begin my incredibly drawn-out crawl
to center stage, using only my arms.
The male voice sings, “Turn around …”
Bonnie Tyler answers, “Every now and
then I get a little bit lonely and you're
never coming round.”
At this point Tiffany runs onto the stage
and leaps over me like a gazelle or some
other animal that is beautifully nimble. As
the two voices continue to exchange
verses, Tiffany does her thing: running,
jumping, tumbling, spinning, sliding—modern dance.
When the drums kick in, I stand and
make a huge circle with my arms so people
will know that I am the sun and I have
risen. Tiffany's movements also become
more fervent. When Bonnie Tyler builds
up to the chorus, singing, “Together we can
take it to the end of the line; your love is
like a shadow on me all of the time,” we
go into the first lift. “I don't know what to
do and  always in the dark.” I have
Tiffany up over my head; I am steady as a
rock; I am performing flawlessly. “We're
living in a powder keg and giving off
sparks.” I begin to rotate Tiffany as she
lifts her legs out into a split and Bonnie
Tyler sings, “I really need you tonight!
Forever's gonna start tonight! Forever's
gonna start tonight.” We make a 360-
degree rotation, and when Bonnie Tyler
sings, “Once upon a time I was falling in
love, but now  only falling apart,”
Tiffany rolls forward down into my arms
and I lower her to the floor as if she were
dead—and I, as the sun, mourn her.
“Nothing I can say, a total eclipse of the
heart.”
When the music builds again, she
explodes upward and begins to fly all
around the stage so beautifully.
As the song continues, I again make
huge, slow circles with my arms,
representing the sun as best I can. I know
the routine so well, I can think about other
things while I am performing, so I begin to
think that I am actually nailing this
performance pretty easily and it is a shame
my family and friends are not here to see
me dancing so excellently. Even though we
will most likely not win the audience's
loudest applause—especially after
Chelsea Chen obviously brought every
single one of her family members to the
performance—I begin to think we will win
anyway. Tiffany is really good, and as she
flies by me so many times, I begin to
admire her in a way I had not previously.
She has kicked her game up a notch for the
competition and is now showing a part of
herself I had not previously seen. If she
was crying with her body for the last month
or so, whenever we practiced in her
studio, she is weeping uncontrollably with
her body tonight, and you would have to be
a stone not to feel what she is offering the
audience.
But then Bonnie Tyler is singing,
“Together we can make it to the end of the
line,” which means it is time for the second
lift—the hardest one—so I lower myself
into a squatting position and place the
backs of my hands on my shoulders. As the
song builds, Tiffany stands on my palms,
and when Bonnie Tyler sings, “I really
need you tonight,” Tiffany bends her knees,
so I engage my leg muscles and push
upward as fast as I can, extending my arms,
elevating my palms. Tiffany shoots high up
into the air, does a full flip, falls into my
arms, and as the chorus dies down, we
gaze into each other's eyes. “Once upon a
time I was falling in love, but now only falling apart. Nothing I can do, a total
eclipse of the heart.” She falls from my
arms, as if dead, and I—being the sun—set, which means I lie back on the floor
and use only my arms to slowly push
myself backward and out of the spotlight,
which takes almost a full minute.
The music fades.
Silence.
For a second I worry that no one will
clap.
But then the house explodes with
applause.
When Tiffany stands, I do too. Just like
we practiced so many times, I hold
Tiffany's hand and take a bow, at which
time the applause thickens and the
audience stands.
 so happy, but at the same time I am
sad because none of my family and friends
came to support me—but then I hear the
loudest Eagles chant I have ever heard in
my entire life. “E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S!
EAGLES!” I look up toward the back
rows, and not only do I spot Jake and
Caitlin and Mom, but also Scott and the fat
men and Cliff and the entire Asian
Invasion. They are all wearing Eagles
jerseys, and I start to laugh when they
begin to chant, “Baskett! Baskett! Baskett!
Baskett!”
In the front row, Ronnie is smiling at me
proudly. He gives me the thumbs-up when
we make eye contact. Veronica is also
smiling, and so is little Emily, but Mrs.
Webster is crying and smiling at the same
time, which is when I realize that she
thinks our dance was really beautiful—enough to make her cry.
Tiffany and I run offstage, and the high
school girls congratulate us with their
gaping eyes and their smiles and their
chatter. “Oh, my God. That was so
amazing!” they all say. It is easy to see that
every one of them admires Tiffany because
Tiffany is an excellent dancer and a
talented choreographer.
Finally Tiffany faces me and says, “You
were perfect!”
“No, you were perfect!” I say. “Do you
think we won?”
She smiles and looks down at her feet.
“What?” I say.
“Pat, I need to tell you something.”
“What?”
“There's no gold trophy.”
“What?”
“There are no winners at Dance Away
Depression. It's just an exhibition. I made
up the part about the wreath just to
motivate you.”
“Oh.”
“And it worked, because you were
beautiful out there onstage! Thank you, and
I will be your liaison,” Tiffany says just
before she kisses me on the lips and hugs
me for a very long time. Her kiss tastes
salty from the dancing, and it is strange to
have Tiffany hugging me so passionately in
front of so many teenage girls in tights—especially because I am shirtless and my
torso is freshly shaved—and also I do not
like to be touched by anyone except Nikki.
“So now that we are done dancing, can I
talk about Eagles football again? Because I
have a lot of Eagles fans out there waiting
for me.”
“After nailing the routine, you can do
whatever you want, Pat,” Tiffany whispers
into my ear, and then I wait a long time for
her to stop hugging me.
After I change in the storage closet, Tiffany
tells me there are no more naked teenagers
backstage, so I go to greet my fans. When I
hop down off the stage, Mrs. Webster
grabs my hands, looks into my eyes, and
says, “Thank you.” She keeps looking into
my eyes, but the old woman doesn't say
anything else, which makes me feel sort of
weird.
Finally Veronica says, “What my mother
means to say is that tonight meant a lot to
Tiffany.”
Emily points at me and says, “Pap!”
“That's right, Em,” Ronnie says. “Uncle
Pat.”
“Pap! Pap! Pap!”
We all laugh, but then I hear fifty Indian
men chanting, “Baskett! Baskett! Baskett!”
“Better go greet your rowdy fans,”
Ronnie says, so I walk up the aisle toward
the sea of Eagles jerseys. Other audience
members I don't know pat me on the back
and congratulate me as I weave my way
through them.
“You were so good up there!” my
mother says in a way that lets me know she
was surprised by my excellent dancing
skills, and then she hugs me. “ so
proud!”
I hug her back and then ask, “Is Dad
here?”
“Forget Dad,” Jake says. “You got sixty
or so wild men waiting to take you to the
most epic tailgate party of your life.”
“Hope you weren't planning on getting
any sleep tonight,” Caitlin says to me.
“You ready to end the Pat Peoples
curse?” Cliff asks me.
“What?” I say.
“The Birds haven't won since you
stopped watching. Tonight we're taking
drastic measures to end the curse,” Scott
says. “We're sleeping in the Asian
Invasion bus, right outside the Wachovia
parking lot. We set up the tailgate party at
daybreak.”
“Ashwini is driving around the block
right now, waiting for us,” Cliff says. “So.
Are you ready?”
I am a little shaken by the news,
especially since I just finished such an
excellent dance routine and was hoping to
simply enjoy the accomplishment for more
than ten minutes. “I don't have my clothes.”
But my mom pulls my Baskett jersey out
of a duffel bag I hadn't noticed before and
says, “You have everything you need in
here.”
“What about my meds?”
Cliff holds up a little plastic bag with
my pills inside.
Before I can say or do anything else, the
Asian Invasion begins chanting louder:
“Baskett! Baskett! Baskett!” The fat men
pick me up above their heads and carry me
out of the auditorium, past the fountain full
of fish, out of the Plaza Hotel, and onto the
streets of Philadelphia. And then I am in
the Asian Invasion bus, drinking a beer and
singing, “Fly, Eagles, fly! On the road to
victory …”
In South Philadelphia, we stop at Pat's
for cheesesteaks—which take a long time
to prepare, as there are sixty or so of us,
and no one would dare go next door to
Geno's Steaks, because Geno's steaks are
inferior—and then we are at the Wachovia
parking lot, parked just outside the gate so
we will be the first vehicle admitted in the
morning and therefore will be guaranteed
the lucky parking spot. We drink, sing,
throw a few footballs, and run around on
the concrete; we roll out the Astroturf and
play a few Kubb games under the
streetlights, and even though I have only
had two or three beers, I begin to tell
everyone I love them because they came to
my dance recital, and I also tell them sorry for abandoning the Eagles midseason and that it was for a good reason,
but I just can't say what—and then I am on
a bus seat and Cliff is waking me up,
saying, “You forgot to take your night
meds.”
When I wake up the next morning, my head
is on Jake's shoulder, and it feels good to
be so close to my brother, who is still
asleep. Quietly I stand and look around and
realize that everyone—Scott, the fat men,
Cliff, all fifty or so Asian Invasion
members—is asleep on the bus. Two or
three men are sleeping in every seat, with
their heads on each other's shoulders.
Everywhere brothers.
I tiptoe to the front of the bus, past
Ashwini, who—in the driver's seat—is
asleep with his mouth wide open.
Once outside, on the small patch of
grass between the street and the sidewalk,
I begin the same push-up and sit-up routine
I used to do back in the bad place, before I
had access to free weights and a stationary
bike and the Stomach Master 6000.
After an hour or so, first light comes.
As I finish the last set of sit-ups, I feel
as though I have burned off my cheesesteak
and the beers I drank the night before, but I
can't help feeling like I should go for a run,
so I run a few miles, and when I return, my
friends are still sleeping.
As I stand next to Ashwini and watch my
boys sleep, I feel happy because I have so
many friends—a whole busful.
I realize that I left the Plaza Hotel
without saying goodbye to Tiffany, and I
feel a little bad about that, even though she
said I could do whatever I wanted after we
performed so well. Also I amvery eager to
write my first letter to Nikki. But there is
Eagles football to think about now, and I
know that an Eagles victory is just about
the only thing that will smooth things over
with my father, so I begin to hope, and I
even say a little prayer to God, who I bet
was pretty impressed with my dance
routine last night, so maybe He will cut me
a break today. Looking at all those
sleeping faces, I realize I have missed my
green-shirted brothers, and I begin to
anticipate the day.
Letter #2-November 15, 2006
Dear Pat,
First, let me say it's good to hear from
you. It's been a long time, which has been
strange for me. I mean, when you are
married to someone for years and then
you don't see that person for almost as
many years, it's strange, right? I don't
know how to explain it, especially since
our marriage ended so abruptly and
scandalously. We never got a chance to
talk things over—one-on-one—like
civilized adults. Because of this,
sometimes I think maybe it's almost as if
 not really sure the multiple “Patless” years have truly transpired, but
maybe it's been only a brief separation
that feels like years. Like a solo car ride
that takes all night but feels like a
lifetime. Watching all those highway
dashes flying by at seventy miles an hour,
your eyes becoming lazy slits and your
mind wandering over the memory of a
whole lifetime—past and future,
childhood memories to thoughts of your
own death—until the numbers on the
dashboard clock do not mean anything
anymore. And then the sun comes up and
you get to your destination and the ride
becomes the thing that is no longer real,
because that surreal feeling has vanished
and time has become meaningful again.
Finally making contact with you is like
arriving at the end of a long car ride and
realizing I went to the wrong place—that
I have ended up in the past somehow, at
the port of origin instead of the dock of
destination. But at least I finally get to
say that to you, which is important. It
probably sounds stupid, but maybe you
know what I mean. The part of my life you
once filled has been nothing but highway
dashes since you were put away, and I am
hoping this exchange of letters will help
to provide closure for both of us, because
soon I will drive back to the place I was
before Tif any contacted me, and we will
be only memories to each other.
I can hardly believe how much you
wrote. When Tif any told me you were
writing me a letter, I did not expect you
to give her two hundred photocopied
pages of your diary. As you can imagine,
Tif any was not able to read me all of the
pages over the phone, because that would
have taken hours! She did read me the
introductory note and then filled me in on
the rest, citing your diary often. You need
to know it was a lot of work for her to
read through the manuscript and pick out
the parts she thought I should hear. For
Tif any's sake, please limit your next
letter to five pages—should there be a
next letter—as reading five pages aloud
takes a long time and Tif any is typing up
what I dictate over the phone as well,
which is already too much to ask of her.
(She really is a phenomenally kind
woman, don't you think? You are lucky to
have Tif any in your life.) Maybe it's the
English teacher in me, but I feel as
though a page limit is best. No of ense,
but let's try to be concise. Okay?
Congratulations on your dance
performance. Tif any says you performed
flawlessly.  so proud of you! It's hard
to imagine you dancing, Pat. The way
that Tif any described the performance
was very impressive.  glad you are
taking an interest in new things. That's
good. I certainly wish you had danced
more with me.
Things at Jef erson High School are
gloriously shitty. The PTA pushed for
online grade books, and now parents
have access to their children's grades
24/7. You would hate working here now
because of this new development. All
parents have to do is log on to a
computer, go to the Jef erson High
School Web page, enter an ID # and a
password, and they can see if their kid
turned in his homework on any given day
or scored poorly on a pop quiz or
whatever. Of course, this means if we are
behind on our grading, parents will know
and the aggressive ones will call. Parentteacher conferences have increased
because of this. Every time a student
misses a single homework,  hearing
from parents. Our sports teams are losing
pretty regularly too. Coach Ritchie and
Coach Malone both miss you. Believe me
when I say they could not fill your shoes,
and the kids are worse of without Coach
Peoples at the helm. The life of a teacher
is still hectic and crazy—and I am glad
you don't have to deal with this type of
stress as you heal.
Sorry to hear about your father being
aloof. I know how much that used to upset
you. And  also sorry your Eagles are
up and down—but at least they beat the
Redskins last weekend, right? And season
tickets with Jake, you must feel as though
you died and went to heaven.
I think it's best to say I am remarried. I
won't go into details unless you want me
to, Pat.  sure this comes as a shock to
you, especially after Tif any read me the
many parts of your diary that seemed to
indicate you still hope to reconcile our
marriage. You need to know this is not
going to happen. The truth is I was
planning on divorcing you before the
accident, before you were checked into
the neural health facility. We were not a
good match. You were never home. And
let's face it—our sex life was shit. I
cheated on you because of this, which you
may or may not remember. I am not
trying to hurt you, Pat—far from it. I am
not proud of my infidelity. I regret
cheating on you. But our marriage was
over before I began my af air. Your mind
is not right, but I have been told your
therapist is one of the best in South
Jersey, your treatments are working, and
your memory will return soon; when it
does, you will remember how I hurt you,
and then you will not even want to write
me, let alone try to re-create what you
think we once had.
I understand my blunt response to your
very long and passionate letter might
make you upset, and if you don't want to
write me again, I will understand. But I
wanted to be honest with you. What's the
point if we lie now?
Yours,
Nikki
P.S.—I was very impressed with your
finally reading many of the books on my
American Lit. syllabus. Many students
have also complained about the novels
being so depressing. Try Mark Twain.
Huck Finn ends happily. You might like
that one. But I'll tell you the same thing I
tell my students when they complain
about the depressing nature of American
literature: life is not a PG feel-good
movie. Real life often ends badly, like our
marriage did, Pat. And literature tries to
document this reality, while showing us it
is still possible for people to endure
nobly. It sounds like you have endured
very nobly since you returned to New
Jersey, and I want you to know I admire
that. I hope you are able to reinvent
yourself and live out the rest of your life
with a quiet sense of satisfaction, which
is what I have been trying to do since we
parted.
Letter #3-November 18, 2006
Dear Nikki,
As soon as I read your letter, I had my
mother check out The Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn from the Collingswood
Public Library. Eager to enjoy a literary
book with a happy ending, I read the
entire work in one sitting, which required
me to forgo sleep for an evening. I don't
know if Tif any read you the parts in my
diary about my black friend Danny, but
this book would make him go wild, as
Twain uses the n-word more than 200
times. I know this because after reading
the first few chapters, I started over and
kept a running tally. Every time Twain
used the n-word, I made a mark on a
piece of paper, and when I finished the
book, there were more than 200 marks!
Danny says that only black people can
use the n-word, which is sort of a
universal truth nowadays, so I am
surprised the school board allows you to
teach such a book.
But I did like the book very much. Even
though Tom Sawyer should have told Jim
he was free right away, I was so happy
for Jim at the end of the novel when he
gained his freedom. Also, the way that
Huck and Jim stuck together through bad
times reminded me of Danny and Pat
getting each other's backs in the bad
place. What really struck me was how
Huck kept struggling with the idea that
God did not want him to help Jim run
away, because Jim was a slave. I realize
people had dif erent values back then,
and that the church and government
approved of slavery, but Huck really
impressed me when he said if helping free
Jim meant going to hell, he would go to
hell.
When I read your letter, I cried for a
long time. I know I was a bad husband,
and I am not mad at you for cheating on
me or leaving me or even remarrying. You
deserve to be happy. And if you are
married now, your getting back together
with me would be a sin, because it would
mean that we would be committing
adultery, even though I still think of you
as my wife. These thoughts make me feel
dizzy, as if I am spinning out of control.
These thoughts make me want to bang my
fist against the little white scar above my
right eyebrow, which itches every time I
get confused or agitated. To use your
metaphor … since I can remember, I have
been driving on a dark highway, passing
endless dashes and lines. Everything else
has only been a pit stop—family, Eagles,
dancing, my workouts. I have been
driving toward you the whole time, only
desiring one thing—our reunion. And now
I finally realize  trying to woo a
married woman, which I know is a sin.
But I don't think you understand how
hard I worked for this happy ending. I am
very fit, and am now practicing being
kind rather than right. I am not the man
you were married to for all those lonely
years. I am a better man. A man who will
take you dancing and will give up sports
entirely—coaching and Eagles—if that
makes you happy. My conscience tells me
that I should not continue to pursue these
feelings, but your telling me to read
Twain's novel made me think that maybe
you were giving me a sign. Huck thought
he shouldn't help Jim escape, but he
followed his heart, he freed Jim, and that
is what led to the happy ending. So maybe
you are telling me in an indirect way that
I should follow my heart? Why else would
you specifically recommend The
Adventures of Huckleberry Finn to me?
Also, our time together wasn't all bad.
Maybe the end was grim, but remember
the beginning? Remember college?
Remember when we drove to
Massachusetts in the middle of the night?
It was the Friday after midterms and we
were watching one of those travel shows
on PBS, because we both thought we
would travel back then. All our friends
had gone to the rugby house for a party,
but we stayed in together for a night of
pizza and wine on the couch of my town
house. We were watching that show about
whale watching of the coast of Martha's
Vineyard, and you asked me if they made
wine in Martha's Vineyard. I said the
New England growing season would be
too short to get the proper types of
grapes, but you insisted that there must
be a vineyard there if the island was
called Martha's Vineyard. We had this
really heated fake argument—laughing
and hitting each other with pillows—and
then suddenly we were in my old Taurus,
driving north.
 sure you didn't think I was really
going to drive you all the way to
Massachusetts without a change of
clothes or toiletries, but soon we were
over the Tappan Zee Bridge, and you
were smiling, and I was holding your
hand.
We never made it to Martha's
Vineyard, but we spent a pretty wild
weekend in an economy motel just outside
of Cape Cod. Do you remember walking
on the beach in March? Our lovemaking
smelling like decades' worth other
people's cigarette smoke as we enjoyed
each other over and over in that motel
room? Remember how when we jumped
on the mattress, smoke seemed to leak out
the sides? The lobster dinner we splurged
for at that cheesy restaurant called
Captain Bob's, where the waiters wore
eye patches?
We always said we were going to
return to Massachusetts, take the ferry,
and see if Martha's Vineyard actually
had vineyards. Why didn't we do this
then? Probably because we had class on
Monday morning. But I wish we had
taken that ferry when we had the chance.
What was the worst thing that could have
happened? We would have missed class.
It seems so silly now to drive all the way
to Cape Cod with the intention of taking
the ferry to Martha's Vineyard only to
spend the weekend in an economy motel
on the mainland.
What  trying to say is that maybe
we can still take the ferry, Nikki. Maybe
it's not too late.
I know this is all so complicated right
now. But there must be a reason that we
are in contact again. There must be a
reason that I lost my memory and then
was filled with a vicious need to improve
myself. There must be a reason if Tif any
was able to arrange this letter exchange.
All  asking is that you keep the
possibility of a reunion open as we
continue to communicate through our
liaison.
My therapist Clif says he feels as
though I am poised for a breakthrough,
and he feels he has stabilized my violent
tendencies with medications. I know that
in my writings I mentioned spitting out
many of my meds when I first came home,
but I am taking all my pills now and can
feel my mental health stabilizing. Every
day I feel as though I am getting closer to
regaining my memory of our demise. And
no matter what I remember—no matter
what really happened between us—it will
not change how I feel about you. You are
living with another man, you are
remarried—what could be worse? I still
love you. I will always love you and am
only now ready to prove my love for you.
I hope this note was concise enough, as
I tried very hard to keep it under five
pages and was successful. I miss you so
much, Nikki. Every freckle on your
beautiful nose.
Love,
Pat, Your Sexy Stud Muf in
(Remember that from the wedding video?)
Letter #4-November 29, 2006
Dear Pat,
Tif any informs me you are sincere,
and from what she has told me about your
new personality, it seems as though you
are a completely transformed man.
Whether this is the result of the accident,
therapy, medication, or simply sheer
willpower, you are to be congratulated,
because this is no small feat.
First allow me to say I recommended
Huck Finn for your reading enjoyment
only. I was not trying to send you a
hidden message. Based on everything you
have written and what Tif any has told me
—maybe you should read The Catcher in
the Rye. It's about a young boy named
Holden who has a hard time coping with
reality. Holden wants to live in a
childhood world for the rest of his life,
which makes him a very beautiful and
interesting character, but one who has
trouble finding his place in the real
world. At present, it seems as though you
are having a hard time dealing with
reality. Part of me thrills at the changes
you have made, because your letters
really do present a better man. But I also
worry that this worldview you have
developed is fragile, and may be what
kept you in the neural health facility for
so many years and is keeping you in your
parents' basement for so many months. At
some point you are going to have to leave
the basement, Pat. You are going to have
to get a job and earn money again, and
then you might not be able to be the
person you have been for the last few
months.
Of course I remember Massachusetts.
We were so young, and the memory is
beautiful. I'll carry it with me forever.
But we WERE CHILDREN, Pat. That was
more than a decade ago.  not the type
of woman who would sleep in an economy
motel anymore. Maybe you have again
become the type of man who would whisk
a woman away to Martha's Vineyard.
Maybe you are experiencing some sort of
second childhood. I don't know. But I do
know you will NOT be experiencing a
second childhood with me. I am not a
child, Pat.  a woman who loves her
current husband very much. My aim when
I agreed to write you was never to allow
you a second chance. My goal was not to
allow you to reenter my life. I only
wanted to give you a chance to say
goodbye—to resolve any unresolved
issues. I want to be clear about this.
Nikki
Letter #5-December 3, 2006
Dear Nikki,
The night after the Tennessee Titans
destroyed the Eagles on their home turf—
a game in which Donovan McNabb tore
his ACL, ending his season and maybe
even his career—Andre Waters shot
himself to death. I realize you don't care
about any of this, but Waters was one of
my favorite players back when I was a
teenager. He was a big part of the Gang
Green Defense. People called him Dirty
Waters because he was fined so much for
hitting too hard. And when I was a kid,
Waters was a god to me. Jake says Waters
probably killed himself after watching the
Eagles play so poorly against the Titans,
which was not a funny thing to say at all.
My father is not talking to anyone,
because he is upset about McNabb's
injury, which will most likely ruin the
Eagles' chances of making the play-of s.
My new favorite player, Hank Baskett, is
not getting many balls thrown to him
anymore, but he actually threw an
interception during a stupid trick play
during the Indy Colts' win over the Birds
just this past weekend. And of course,
there was also your last letter.
So  thinking this is the part of my
movie where things appear as if nothing
is going to work out. I have to remind
myself that all movie characters go
through this sort of dark period before
they find their happy ending.
It was hard to wait two weeks for your
reply. Your letter made me very sad, and
in the past twenty-four hours I have
written my reply at least a hundred times.
I don't know if Tif any read you the
part of my memoir where I described my
therapist's of ice, but he has two leather
recliners—one black, one brown. My
therapist lets his patients choose which
seat they want to sit in just so he can see
what type of mood we are in. I've been
picking the black one lately.
I've read certain parts of your letters
to Clif —that's my therapist's name. He
doesn't know about Tif any's
involvement, because I promised her that
I would not tell anyone that she has
agreed to act as our liaison. When Clif
asked how I was able to make contact
with you, I refused to answer. I hope that
you don't mind my reading some of your
words to my therapist. It's funny. Clif
keeps hinting that I should pursue a
relationship with Tif any. And I know
Tif any is reading this letter to you, so
this part will be awkward for everyone
involved, but Tif any will just have to
deal with it because this is what being a
liaison requires, and I already danced so
well, fulfilling my end of the bargain.
Clif says that Tif any and I have a lot
in common at this point and that you and
I have very little in common, because we
are in very dif erent places. I thought he
meant that you were in Maryland and I
was in New Jersey, but it turns out he
means that I am still fighting to regain
my mental health, and you are mentally
stable. I asked Clif why he would want
me to pursue a relationship with someone
who is as mentally unstable as me, and he
said that you were not able to support me
in the way I needed to be supported,
which is why our marriage failed. I got
very mad at Clif when he said that,
especially since I am the one to blame,
but he insisted that you allowed me to
become the person I was by enabling me
—never putting me in my place and
allowing me to emotionally abuse you for
so long. He says that Tif any will not
allow me to do this and that our
friendship is based on a mutual need and
a commitment to bettering ourselves
through physical fitness and dance.
Tif any and I are great friends, and I
appreciate all that she is doing for me
now. But she is not you. I still love you,
Nikki. And you can't control or alter true
love.
Mom checked out The Catcher in the
R y e from the Collingswood Public
Library. I liked Holden Caulfield very
much and felt a lot of sympathy for him
because he really was a nice guy, always
trying to do right by his sister Phoebe,
yet always failing, like when he bought
that record for Phoebe and broke it
before he could give it to her. I also liked
how he was always so worried about what
the NYC ducks do in winter. Where do
they go? But my favorite part was the
ending, when Holden takes his sister to
the carousel and she rides on the horse
and tries to reach for the gold ring.
Holden says, “I was sort of afraid she'd
fall of the goddamn horse, but I didn't
say anything or do anything. The thing
with kids is, if they want to grab for the
gold ring, you have to let them do it, and
not say anything. If they fall of , they fall
of , but it's bad if you say anything to
them.” When I read this, I thought about
your writing that I was in my second
childhood and that I would have to
“leave the basement” someday. But then I
thought about how my improving myself
and learning how to dance with Tif any
was like reaching for the gold ring, which
is you. Nikki, you are my gold ring. So
maybe I will fall of the goddamn
carousel, but I have to reach for you,
right?
I want to see you. I want to talk to you
face-to-face. Just once. Afterward, if you
never want to see me again, I can live
with that. Just give me one chance to
show you how much I have changed. Just
one chance. One face-to-face meeting.
Please.
Love,
Pat
Letter #6-December 13, 2006
Dear Pat,
 sorry your childhood hero
committed suicide.  sorry McNabb
was injured. And I am especially sad to
hear that your father is still allowing the
results of football games to govern the
relationships he has with his immediate
family. Your poor, poor mother.
Your decision to reveal your
therapist's views regarding Tif any made
for an awkward phone conversation. It is
obvious that Tif any cares for you enough
to put together this exchange of letters. I
hope you will protect her legally by
refraining from discussing the
arrangement further with your therapist
or anyone else. You do realize that by
showing Clif my letters, you have put me
in a precarious legal position. I am not
allowed to make contact with you by law,
remember? So this will be my last letter.
Sorry.
Regarding Holden Caulfield and the
gold ring Phoebe reaches for at the end
of the novel, please don't think of me as
your golden ring. I am your ex-wife. I
wish you well, but your therapist was
right to say we are incompatible.
I can see clearly we are not moving
toward closure, which makes me regret
opening up this dialogue. My only hope is
that someday—after you have stabilized
your mental health—you will take
comfort in the fact that I reached out to
you after all that happened. I wish you
well in this world, Pat.
Goodbye.
Nikki
Letter #7-December 14, 2006
Dear Nikki,
I believe in happy endings with all my
heart. I've worked too hard on selfimprovement to give up on my movie now.
Remember where I asked you to marry
me? Meet me there on Christmas Day at
dusk. This is the only thing I will ever ask
of you. But I feel as though you owe me
this one last request. Please.
Love,
Pat
This Square in My Hand
My father refuses to go with Mom, so I put
on the new suit she bought me earlier this
month and accompany her to the candlelit
Mass at St. Joseph's. It is a crisp night, but
we walk the few blocks required, and soon
we are in the very sanctuary where I was
confirmed so many years ago. Rows of red
and white poinsettias are lined up on the
altar, and antique wrought-iron lamps
stand guard at the ends of the pews, just
like every other Christmas Eve. The
candlelight makes the stone building look
even more antiquated—almost medieval.
And sitting down in the pew again reminds
me of when Jake and I were just boys.
We'd come to Christmas Eve Mass so
excited for the next day, ready to tear into
all those presents. But tonight it's just
Mom and me, as Jake and Caitlin are
spending Christmas Eve in New York City
with Caitlin's parents, and Dad is home
drinking beer.
After some announcements and
Christmas hymns, the priest talks about
stars and angels and mangers and donkeys
and miracles, and somewhere in the story,
I start praying.
Dear God, I know it would take a
miracle to get Nikki to show up tomorrow
at the place where we were engaged, but
lucky for me, You and I both believe in
miracles. As I sit here thinking about
this, I wonder if You actually believe in
miracles, since You are all-powerful and
can do anything. So technically, Your
making Nikki show up tomorrow or
putting Baby Jesus inside of the Virgin
Mary is no more dif icult for You than,
say, watching an Eagles game—which
has been pretty easy since backup QB Jef
Garcia has managed to win three
straight. It's sort of funny when I think
about it now. If You created the world in
only a week, sending Your Son down to do
a mission must have been no sweat for
You. But I am still glad You took the time
to send Jesus to teach us all about
miracles, because the possibility of
miracles happening keeps a lot of people
moving forward down here. I don't have
to tell You that I have been working
pretty hard on bettering myself since
apart time began. I actually want to thank
You for disrupting my life, because I
would never have taken the time to
improve my character if I did not get sent
to the bad place, nor would I have met
Clif , or even Tif any for that matter, and
I know this journey has been for a reason.
I trust that there is a divine plan in ef ect,
and that is why I believe You will make
sure Nikki shows up tomorrow. I want to
thank You in advance for helping me get
my wife back. I am looking forward to the
years ahead, when I can treat Nikki how a
woman should be treated. Also, if it is not
too much trouble, please allow the Eagles
to win on Christmas Day, because a win
over the Cowboys will put the Eagles in
first place and then my dad might be in a
good mood and maybe he will even talk to
Mom and me. It's strange, even with the
Birds in play-of contention, Dad has
been a grinch this holiday season, and it
has really made Mom sad. I've caught
her crying several times, but You
probably already know that since You are
all-knowing. I love You, God.
I cross myself just as the priest finishes
the homily, and then the candles are passed
out and lighted while the people sing
“Silent Night.” Mom is sort of leaning
against me, so I throw an arm around her
shoulder and give her a little squeeze. She
looks up at me and smiles. “My good boy,”
her lips mouth, bathed in candlelight, and
then we both join in with the singing.
My father is in bed asleep when we
return home. Mom pours some eggnog and
plugs in the lights, and we sip in the glow
of the Christmas tree. Mom talks about all
the ornaments Jake and I made as little
kids. She keeps pointing to painted
pinecones, little Popsicle-stick picture
frames with our grade school photos
inside, and reindeers made fromclothespins and pipe cleaners. “Remember
when you made this in so-and-so's class?”
she keeps saying, and I nod every time,
even though I don't remember making any
of the ornaments. It's funny how Mom
remembers everything about Jake and me,
and somehow I know that Nikki will never
love me as much—no matter how much I
improve my character—and that's what I
really truly love about my mom.
Just when we are finishing the last sips
of our eggnog, the doorbell rings. “Who
could that be?” Mom asks in a dramatic
way, suggesting she knows exactly who it
could be.
I start to get excited because I think that
it might be Nikki, that Mom has arranged
the best Christmas present ever. But when I
answer the door, it's only Ronnie,
Veronica, Tiffany, and little Emily. They
all but skip into the foyer and start singing,
“We wish you a Merry Christmas. We
wish you a Merry Christmas. We wish you
a Merry Christmas and a Happy New
Year.” At this point Tiffany stops singing,
but Ronnie and Veronica continue to belt
out the first verse, and my mother is all
smiles as she listens to the good tidings
they bring. Little Emily looks like an
Eskimo, all bundled up, but her parents'
singing makes her little round face look
content. I can even see the Christmas tree
lights reflected in her dark eyes. As they
sing, Ronnie's family looks like a happy
one, and I envy my friend.
Tiffany is looking at her feet, but she
rejoins the singing when they get to the
chorus again.
The song ends with Ronnie holding the
last note too long, but my mother claps
anyway, and then we are all seated around
the Christmas tree drinking more eggnog.
“Maybe you want to give your friends
their presents,” Momsays.
Mom had taken me shopping many times
in the past few weeks, and we picked out
presents for the people who have helped
me get better, because Mom says it's
important to recognize the special people
in your life around the holidays. Cliff
loved his Eagles dartboard, and it turns out
that Veronica and Tiffany both like the
perfume we purchased—thank God, as I
did sniff just about every bottle in the
Cherry Hill Mall. Ronnie loves the official
NFL leather football I picked out for him
so that he can work on his throws, and
little Emily hugs the stuffed eagle wearing
an Eagles jersey that I picked out special
for her, and she even begins to chew on the
yellow beak just as soon as she finishes
ripping off the paper.
For my mom's sake, I keep hoping my
father might come downstairs and join the
party, but he doesn't.
“And we have a present for you too,”
Ronnie tells me. “Come on, Em. Let's give
Uncle Pat his present.” He hands Emily a
box, which is too heavy for her to carry,
even though she is walking pretty well
now, so he and Emily both carry the
present over to me.
“For Pap!” Emily says, and then starts to
rip off the wrapping paper.
“You want to help me?” I ask her, and
she tears the rest of the paper off as
everyone watches.
Once Emily finishes with the paper, I
open the box and fish through the
Styrofoam peanuts and find what feels like
a plaque of some sort. I pull it out of the
peanuts and can see it is a framed picture
of Hank Baskett. He's in the end zone with
a football in his hand.
“It was taken during the Dallas game,”
Ronnie says.
“Read what's written on the picture,”
says Veronica.
To Pat,
You're on the road to victory!
Hank Baskett #84
“This is the greatest present ever! How
did you get Baskett to sign the picture?”
“Veronica's cousin's a barber,” Ronnie
explains, “and one of his customers works
for the Eagles promotions department, so
we were able to pull a few strings. Vinnie
said that this was the first request his
contact got for a Baskett autograph, and
Baskett was actually pretty excited to get a
specific request, since his autograph is not
in such high demand.”
“Thanks, Ronnie,” I say, and then we
give each other one-armed manly hugs.
“Merry Christmas,” Ronnie says to me
as he thumps my back.
“Well, I hate to break up the party, but
we need to get Emily in bed before Santa
comes down the chimney,” Veronica says.
As they put on their coats, my mom is
putting their presents into a holiday bag
with fancy handles and thanking everyone
for coming over, saying, “You don't know
how much it means to Pat and me. You've
been so good to us this year. You're good
people.
All of you. Such great people.” And then
Mom is crying again, saying, “ sorry.
Thanks. Merry Christmas. Don't mind me.
God bless you.”
Just before everyone leaves, Tiffany
grabs my hand, kisses me on the cheek, and
says, “Merry Christmas, Pat.” When she
pulls her palm away from mine, I have a
square in my hand, but the look in Tiffany's
eyes commands silence, so I stick the
square in my pocket and say goodbye to
Ronnie's family.
I help my mother clean up the wrapping
paper and empty eggnog mugs, and then she
catches me under the mistletoe in the
hallway. She's pointing up and smiling, so
I kiss her good night, and she reaches up to
hug me. “ so glad I have you in my life
right now, Pat,” my mother says to me,
flexing her arm muscles so hard, pulling
my head down so that her shoulder juts up
into my throat and it becomes a little
harder to breathe.
In my room, by the light of the electric
Christmas candle Mom has stuck in my
window for the holiday season, I unfold
the note Tiffany passed me.
Letter #8-December 24, 2006
Dear Pat,
I won't be coming on Christmas. I won't
be coming ever. Move on. Start over.
Tiffany and your family will help you
through this. Goodbye for real this time. I
will not be writing more, nor will I be
taking any more calls from Tiffany,
because I do not appreciate her yelling and
cursing at me on your behalf. Do not try to
contact me. The restraining order is still in
effect.
Nikki
An Episode Seems Inevitable
I rise before dawn on Christmas morning
and begin my weight-lifting routine. I amnervous about being reunited with Nikki
today, so I double-time my exercises in an
effort to work off my anxiety. I realize the
note Tiffany gave me last night suggests
that Nikki might not be interested in
meeting me at that special place once dusk
rolls around, but I also know that in the
movies, just when the main character is
about to give up, something surprising
happens, which leads to the happy ending.
 pretty sure that this is the part of my
movie when something surprising will
happen, so I am trusting in God, who I
know will not let me down. If I have faith,
if I go to that special place, something
beautiful will happen when the sun sets—I
can feel it.
When I hear Christmas music, I stop
lifting and go upstairs. My mother is
cooking eggs and bacon. Coffee is
brewing. “Merry Christmas,” Mom says,
and gives me a little kiss on the cheek.
“Don't forget your pills.”
I take the orange bottles from the cabinet
and twist off the lids. As I swallow my last
pill, my father comes into the kitchen and
throws the newspaper's plastic cover into
the waste bucket. When he turns and heads
for the family room, my mother says,
“Merry Christmas, Patrick.”
“Merry Christmas,” Dad mumbles.
We eat eggs and bacon and toast
together as a family, but no one says much.
In the living roomwe sit around the tree.
Mom opens her present from Dad. It's a
diamond necklace from some department
store—tiny diamonds in the shape of a
heart on a thin gold chain. I know for a fact
that Mom has a similar necklace, because
she wears it almost every day. My father
probably gave her the same thing last year,
but Mom acts really surprised and says,
“Patrick, you shouldn't have,” before she
kisses my father on the lips and then hugs
him. Even though Dad doesn't hug Momback, I can tell he is happy, because he sort
of smirks.
Next, we give Dad his present, which is
from both Mom and me. He tears off the
wrapping paper and holds up an authentic
Eagles jersey, not one with iron-on decals.
“Why doesn't it have any numbers or a
name on it?” he asks.
“Since McNabb went down, we thought
you'd want to pick a new favorite player,”
Mom says. “So when you do, we'll have
the correct number and name sewn onto the
jersey.”
“Don't waste your money,” Dad says,
putting the jersey back into the box. “They
won't win today without McNabb. They're
not going to make the play-offs.  done
watching that lousy excuse for a football
team.”
Mom smiles at me because I told her
that Dad would say as much, even though
the Eagles have been playing pretty well.
But Mom and I both know Dad will be
watching the Eagles play the Cowboys
later today and will pick a new favorite
player late next summer—after watching
one or two preseason games—at which
time he will say something like, “Jeanie,
where's my authentic Eagles jersey? I want
to get those numbers sewn on before the
season starts.”
A few dozen presents are for me, all of
which Mom bought and wrapped. I get a
new Eagles sweatshirt, new running shoes,
workout clothes, dress clothes, a few ties,
a brand-new leather jacket, and a special
running watch that will help me time my
runs and will even calculate the calories I
burn while running. And—
“Jesus Christ, Jeanie. How many
presents did you buy the kid?” Dad says,
but in a way that lets us know he is not
really all that mad.
After we eat lunch, I shower and put on
underarm deodorant, some of my father's
cologne, and one of my new running
outfits.
“ going to try out my new watch,” I
tell Mom.
“Caitlin and your brother will be here in
an hour,” Mom says. “So don't be too
long.”
“I won't,” I say just before I exit the
house.
In the garage, I change into the dress
clothes I hid there earlier in the week—tweed pants, a black button-down shirt,
leather loafers, and the expensive overcoat
my father no longer wears. Next, I walk to
the Collingswood PATCO stop and catch
the 1:45 train to Philadelphia.
It begins to rain lightly.
I get off at Eighth and Market, walk
through the drizzle to City Hall, and catch
an Orange Line train headed north.
Not many people are on the train, and
underground it does not feel like Christmas
at all. But the trash-smelling steam that
wafts in at every stop when the doors
open, the marker graffiti on the orange seat
across from me, the half-eaten hamburger
lying bunless in the aisle—none of it
brings me down, because I am about to be
reunited with Nikki. Apart time is finally
about to end.
I get off at Broad and Olney and climb
the steps up into North Philly, where it is
raining a little harder. Even though I
remember being mugged twice near this
subway stop when I was a college student,
I do not worry, mostly because it's
Christmas and I am a lot stronger than I
used to be when I was an undergraduate.
On Broad Street I see a few black people,
which gets me thinking about Danny and
how he always used to talk about going to
live with his aunt in North Philly just as
soon as he got out of the bad place—especially whenever I mentioned my
graduating from La Salle University, which
is apparently close to where Danny's aunt
lives. I wonder if Danny ever made it out
of the bad place, and the thought of himhaving Christmas in a mental institution
makes me really sad because Danny was a
good friend to me.
I stick my hands into my dad's overcoat
pockets as I walk down Olney. With the
rain, it is sort of cold. Soon I am seeing the
blue-and-yellow flags that line the campus
streets, and it makes me feel happy and sad
at the same time to be back at La Salle—almost like looking at old pictures of
people who have either died or with whomyou have lost contact.
When I get to the library, I turn left and
walk past the tennis courts, where I make a
right and stroll past the security building.
Beyond the tennis courts is a walled-in
hill, with so many trees you'd never
believe it was in North Philly if someone
had led you here blindfolded and then
removed the blindfold and asked, “Where
do you think you are?”
At the bottom of the hill is a Japanese
teahouse, which is as picturesque as it is
out of place in North Philly, although I
ha v e never been inside to have tea—because it is a private teahouse—so maybe
the inside has a city feel to it; I don't know.
Nikki and I used to meet on this hill,
behind an old oak tree, and sit on the grass
for hours. Surprisingly, not many students
hung out in this spot. Maybe they did not
know it was there. Maybe no one else
thought it was a nice spot. But Nikki loved
sitting on the grassy hill and looking down
at the Japanese teahouse, feeling as though
she were somewhere else in the world—somewhere other than North Philadelphia.
And if it weren't for the occasional car
horn or gunshot in the distance, I would
have believed I was in Japan when I was
sitting on that hill, even though I have
never been to Japan and don't really know
what being in that particular country is
like.
I sit down under a huge tree—on a dry
spot of grass—and wait.
Rain clouds swallowed the sun a long
time ago, but when I look at my watch, the
numbers officially make it dusk.
My chest starts to feel tight; I notice that
I am shaking and breathing heavily. I hold
my hand out to see how bad the shakes are,
and my hand is flapping like the wing of a
bird, or maybe it is as if I amhot and trying
to fan myself with my fingers. I try to make
it stop, and when I can't, I shove both
hands into my father's overcoat pockets,
hoping Nikki will not notice my
nervousness when she shows up.
It grows darker, and then even darker.
Finally, I close my eyes, and after a
time, I begin to pray:
Dear God: If I did something wrong,
please let me know what it was so I can
make amends. As I search my memory, I
can't think of anything that would make
You mad, except for my punching the
Giants fan a few months ago, but I
already asked for forgiveness regarding
that slip, and I thought we had moved on.
Please make Nikki show up. When I open
my eyes, please let her be there. Maybe
there was traf ic, or she forgot how to get
to La Salle? She always used to get lost
in the city.  okay with her not showing
up exactly at dusk, but please let her
know that I am still here waiting and will
wait all night if I have to. Please, God.
I'll do anything. If You make her show up
when I open—
I smell a woman's perfume.
I recognize the scent.
I breathe in deeply to ready myself.
I open my eyes.
“ fucking sorry, okay?” she says, but
it's not Nikki. “I never thought it would
lead to this. So  just going to be honest
now. My therapist thought you were stuck
in a constant state of denial because you
were never afforded closure, and I thought
I might afford you closure by pretending to
be Nikki. So I made up the whole liaison
thing in an effort to provide you closure,
hoping you would snap out of your funk
and would be able to move on with your
life once you understood that being
reunited with your ex-wife was an
impossibility. I wrote all the letters myself.
Okay? I never even contacted Nikki. She
doesn't even know you're sitting here.
Maybe she doesn't even know you are out
of the neural health facility. She's not
coming, Pat. sorry.”
 staring up into Tiffany's soakingwet face—wet hair, runny makeup—and I
can hardly believe that it's not Nikki. Her
words do not register at first, but when
they do, I feel my chest heating up, and an
episode seems inevitable. My eyes burn.
My face flushes. Suddenly I realize that for
the past two months I have been
completely delusional, that Nikki is never
coming back and apart time is going to last
forever.
Nikki.
Is.
Never.
Coming.
Back.
Never.
I want to hit Tiffany.
I want to pound her face with my
knuckles until the bones in my hands
crumble and Tiffany is completely
unrecognizable, until she no longer has a
face fromwhich she can spew lies.
“But everything I said in the letters was
true. Nikki did divorce you, and she is
remarried, and she even took out a
restraining order against you. I got all the
information from—”
“You liar!” I say, realizing that I am
now crying again. “Ronnie told me that I
shouldn't trust you. That you were nothing
but a—”
“Please, just listen to me. I know this is
a shock. But you need to face reality, Pat.
You've been lying to yourself for years! I
needed to do something drastic to help you.
But I never thought—”
“Why?” I say, feeling as if I might
vomit, feeling as though my hands might
find Tiffany's throat at any moment. “Why
did you do this to me?”
Tiffany looks into my eyes for what
seems like a long time, and then her voice
sort of quivers like my mom's does when
she is saying something she really truly
means. Tiffany says, “Because,  in love
with you.”
And then I amup and running.
At first Tiffany follows me, but—even
though I am in my leather loafers and it is
raining pretty steadily now—I am able to
find the man speed she does not have,
running faster than I ever have before, and
after taking enough turns and weaving
through enough traffic, I look back and
Tiffany is gone, so I slow my running a bit
and jog aimlessly for what seems like
hours. I sweat through the rain, and my
father's overcoat becomes very heavy. I
can't even begin to think about what this
all means. Betrayed by Tiffany. Betrayed
by God. Betrayed by my own movie. still crying.  still jogging. And then 
praying again, but not in a nice way.
God, I didn't ask for a million dollars.
I didn't ask to be famous and powerful. I
didn't even ask for Nikki to take me back.
I only asked for a meeting. A single faceto-face conversation. All I've done since I
left the bad place was try to improve
myself—to become exactly what You tell
everyone to be: a good person. And here I
am running through North Philly on a
rainy Christmas Day—all alone. Why did
You give us so many stories about
miracles? Why did You send Your Son
down from heaven? Why did You give us
movies if life doesn't ever end well? What
kind of fucking God are You? Do You
want me to be miserable for the rest of my
life? Do You—
Something hits my shin hard, and then
my palms are sliding across the wet
concrete. I feel kicks landing on my back,
my legs, my arms. I curl up into a ball,
trying to protect myself, but the kicking
continues. When it feels as though my
kidneys have exploded, I look up to see
who is doing this to me, but I only see the
bottom of a sneaker just before it strikes
my face.
Mad Nipper
When I wake, the rain has stopped, but I
am shivering. I sit up, and my whole body
hurts. My overcoat is gone. My leather
loafers are gone. All the money I had in my
pocket is gone. My leather belt is gone.
The new watch my mother gave me for
Christmas is gone. I touch my fingers to my
face, and they turn red.
Looking around, I see that I am on a
narrow street full of parked cars. Row
houses on either side. Some are boarded
up, many of the porches and steps attached
to the fronts are in need of repair, and the
streetlights above are not on—maybe
smashed by rocks—making the whole
world look dark. I am not in a good
neighborhood, with no money, shoes, or
any idea where I am. Part of me wants to
lie on the sidewalk forever, but  afraid
those bad people might come back to finish
me off, and before I can really think about
anything,  on my feet, limping down the
block.
My right thigh muscle feels locked in
place, and I cannot bend my right knee very
well.
One house on the block is decorated for
Christmas. On the porch is a manger scene
with a plastic Mary and Joseph—both
black. I limp toward Baby Jesus, thinking
that people celebrating the holiday are
more likely to help me than people without
Christmas decorations, because—in the
Bible—Jesus says we should help
shoeless people who have been mugged.
When I finally get to the decorated row
house, a funny thing happens. Instead of
knocking on the door, I limp over to the
black Mary and Joseph because I want to
look into the manger and see if Baby Jesus
is black too. My cramped leg screams with
pain and gives out just as I reach the
Nativity scene. On my hands and one knee,
between His parents, I see that Baby Jesus
is really black and plugged in—his dark
face glows like amber, and a stream of
white light blasts up through His little baby
chest.
Squinting, taking in the light of Baby
Jesus, I instantly realize that I was mugged
because I cursed God, so I pray and say
 sorry and I understand what God is
telling me—that I need to work on my
character some more before I will be
allowed to find apart time's end.
My pulse is pounding so hard in my ears
that I do not even hear the front door open,
nor do I hear a man walk out onto the
porch.
“What you doin' to Aunt Jasmine's
Nativity scene?” the man says.
And when I turn my head, God lets me
know He has accepted my apology.
When they first brought Danny to the bad
place, he wouldn't talk. Like me and
everyone else, he had a scar, but his was
much larger and on the back of his head,
making a bright pink line in his Afro. For a
month or so, he just sort of sat in a chair by
the window of his room as speech
therapists visited and left frustrated. Me
and the boys would stop in and say hello,
but Danny only looked out the window
when we talked to him, so we thought he
was one of the people whose brain trauma
was so bad he was most likely going to be
a vegetable for the rest of his life—sort of
like my roommate, Jackie. But after a
month or so, Danny started taking his meals
in the cafeteria with the rest of us,
attending music and group therapy
sessions, and even going on a few group
excursions to the shops by the harbor and
the Orioles games down at Camden Yards.
It was obvious that he understood words
and even was pretty normal—he just
wouldn't talk.
I don't remember how long it took, but
after a time, Danny started talking again,
and I happened to be the first person he
spoke to.
A girl from some fancy college in
Baltimore came in to provide what we
were told were “non-traditional
treatments.” We had to volunteer for the
sessions, as this girl was not a real
therapist yet. We were skeptical at first,
but when she came to promote the
program, we were soon persuaded by her
girlish figure and cute, innocent-looking
face. She was very nice and quite
attractive, so we all did whatever she said,
hoping to keep her around—especially
since there were no women patients in the
bad place and the nurses were extremely
ugly.
For the first week, our college student
had us look into mirrors a lot as she
encouraged us to really get to know
ourselves, which was pretty out-there.
She'd say things like, “Study your nose.
Look at it until you really know it. Watch
how it moves when you breathe in deeply.
Appreciate the miracle of respiration.
Now look at your tongue. Not just the top,
but underneath. Study it. Contemplate the
miracles of taste and speech.”
But then one day she paired us
randomly, had us sit facing each other, and
told us to stare into our partner's eyes. She
had us do this for a long time, and it was
quite weird because the room was
completely silent, and men do not usually
look into each other's eyes for long
periods of time. Then she started telling us
to imagine that our partner was someone
we missed, or someone we had hurt in the
past, or a family member we hadn't seen
for many years. She told us to see this
person through our partner's eyes, until that
person was in front of us.
Looking into another person's eyes for
an extended period of time proved to be a
powerful thing. And if you don't believe
me, try it yourself.
Of course I began to see Nikki, which
was strange because I was staring into
Danny's eyes, and Danny is a six-footthree black man who looks nothing like my
ex-wife. Even still, as my pupils remained
locked on Danny's, it was as if I were
looking directly into Nikki's eyes. I was
the first one to start crying, but others
followed. Our college girl came over, said
I was brave, and then hugged me, which
was nice. Danny said nothing.
That night I woke up to the sound of
Jackie's grunting. When I opened my eyes,
it took a few seconds for my pupils to
adjust, but when they did, I saw Danny
standing over me.
“Danny?” I said.
“My name's not Danny.”
His voice scared me because I was not
expecting him to speak, especially since he
had not spoken to anyone since he arrived.
“The name's Mad Nipper.”
“What do you want?” I asked him. “Why
are you in our room?”
“I only wanted to tell you my street
name, so we could be boys. But we're not
on the streets right now, so you can keep
calling me Danny.”
And then Danny walked out of my roomand Jackie quit grunting.
Everyone in the bad place was pretty
shocked when Danny began speaking
regularly the next day. The doctors said he
was experiencing a breakthrough, but it
wasn't like that. Danny just decided to talk.
We really did become boys and did just
about everything together in the bad place,
including our exercise routine. And little
by little I found out Danny's story.
As Mad Nipper he was a rising gansta
rapper from North Philadelphia who had
signed on with a small record label in
NYC called Tougher Trade. He was
playing a club in Baltimore when some
beef broke loose, and somehow—Danny
often changed the details of his story, so I
can't say what happened for certain—he
was struck in the back of the head with a
tire iron, driven to the harbor, and thrown
in.
Most of the time Danny claimed that a
Baltimore rap group—one that was
scheduled to perform before Mad Nipper
—asked him to smoke up in an alleyway
behind the club, but when he went outside
with these other rappers, they started
giving him some shit about headlining in
their neighborhood. When he brought up
his superior record sales, the lights went
out, and he woke up dead, which is
actually true, as his file says he was dead
for a few minutes before the EMTs
managed to revive him.
Lucky for Danny, somebody heard the
splash Mad Nipper made when he entered
the harbor, and this person fished him out
and yelled for help right after the other
rappers left. Danny claims that the salt in
the water kept his brain alive, but I don't
understand how that could be, especially
since he was thrown into the filthy harbor
and not the ocean. After an operation that
removed tiny parts of his skull from his
brain, and a lengthy stay at the hospital,
Danny was brought to the bad place. The
worst part was that he lost his ability to
rap—he just couldn't make his mouth rap
anymore, at least not as fast as he used to
—so he took a vow of silence, which he
broke only after looking into my eyes for a
very long period of time.
Once, I asked Danny who he saw when
he looked into my eyes, and he told me he
saw his aunt Jasmine. When I asked himwhy he saw his aunt Jasmine, he told me
she was the woman who had raised him up
until he became a man.
“Danny?” I say, kneeling before the
manger.
“Who are you?”
“It's Pat Peoples.”
“White Pat fromBaltimore?”
“Yeah.”
“How?”
“I don't know.”
“You're bloody. What happened?”
“God punished me, but then He led me
here.”
“What you do to make God angry?”
“I cursed Him, but I said I was sorry.”
“If you really Pat People, what's my
name?”
“Mad Nipper, a.k.a. Danny.”
“You eat Christmas dinner yet?”
“No.”
“You like ham?”
“Yes.”
“You wanna eat with me and Aunt
Jasmine?”
“Okay.”
Danny helps me stand, and when I limp
into Aunt Jasmine's home, it smells of pine
needles and baked ham and pineapple
sauce. A small Christmas tree is decorated
with popcorn strings and colorful blinking
lights, two green-and-red stockings are
hung on a fake fireplace mantel, and on the
television the Eagles are playing the
Cowboys.
“Sit down,” Danny says. “Make yourself
at home.”
“I don't want to get blood on your
couch.”
“It's got a plastic cover, see?”
I look, and the couch is really covered
with plastic, so I sit down and see that the
Eagles are winning, which surprises me,
since Dallas was favored.
“I've missed you,” Danny says after he
sits down next to me. “You didn't even say
goddamn goodbye when you left.”
“Mom came and got me when you were
in music relaxation class. When did you
get out of the bad place?”
“Just yesterday. Out on good behavior.”
I look at my friend's face and see that he
is serious. “So you get out of the bad place
yesterday, and I just happen to run to your
neighborhood and get mugged on your
street and find you here?”
“Guess so,” Danny says.
“It sort of seems like a miracle, doesn't
it?”
“Miracles happen on Christmas, Pat.
Everybody knows that shit.”
But before we can say more, a petite,
serious-looking woman—who is wearing
huge black-rimmed glasses—walks into
the living room and starts screaming, “Oh,
my Lord! Oh, Jesus!” I try to convince
Aunt Jasmine  okay, but she calls 911,
and then I amin an ambulance being driven
to Germantown Hospital.
When I arrive at the emergency room,
Aunt Jasmine prays for me and yells at a
lot of people until I am taken to a private
room, where my clothes are removed and
my wounds are cleaned.
I am given an IV while I tell a police
officer what happened.
After X-rays, the doctors tell me that my
leg is really messed up; my mother,
Caitlin, and Jake arrive, and then my leg is
put in a white cast that starts at my heel and
ends just below my hip.
I want to apologize to Danny and Aunt
Jasmine for ruining their Christmas dinner,
but my mother tells me that they left soon
after she arrived, which makes me really
sad for some reason.
When I am finally released from the
hospital, a nurse puts a purple sock over
my bare toes and gives me a pair of
crutches, but Jake pushes me in a
wheelchair to his BMW. I have to sit
sideways in the backseat, with my feet on
Mom's lap, because of the cast.
We drive through North Philadelphia in
silence, but when we pull out onto the
Schuylkill Expressway, Caitlin says,
“Well, at least we'll never forget this
Christmas.” She means it as a joke, but
nobody laughs.
“Why isn't anyone asking me how I
ended up in North Philadelphia?” I ask.
After a long pause, my mother says,
“Tiffany called us from a pay phone and
told us everything. We were driving
around North Philadelphia looking for you
when the hospital called your father. He
called Jake's cell phone, and here we are.”
“So I ruined everyone's Christmas?”
“That crazy bitch ruined our Christmas.”
“Jake,” Momsays. “Please.”
“Did the Eagles win?” I ask Jake,
because I remember that they were winning
and am hoping my father will be in a
decent mood when I get home.
“Yeah,” Jake says in a clipped way that
lets me know he is upset with me.
The Eagles beat T.O. and Dallas—in
Dallas—on Christmas Day, locking up a
play-off spot, and Jake, who has not
missed a game since he was in elementary
school, misses perhaps the best game of
the season because he was searching all of
North Philadelphia for his mentally
deranged brother. And now I realize why
my father is not with the search team—there was no way he'd miss such an
important Eagles game, especially against
Dallas. I can't help feeling guilty, as it
probably would have been a really nice
Christmas, especially since my father
would have been in a phenomenal mood,
and I am sure my mother prepared food,
and Caitlin is even wearing an Eagles
jersey, and I keep messing up everyone's
lives, and maybe it would have been better
if the muggers had killed me, and …
I start to cry, but quietly, so that my mom
won't be upset.
“ sorry I made you miss the game,
Jake,” I manage to say, but the words make
me cry even harder, and soon I am sobbing
into my hands again, like a baby.
My mother pats my unbroken leg, but no
one says anything.
We ride the rest of the way home in
silence.
How Is She?
My birthday falls on a Friday. December
29. In the afternoon, Mom helps me tape
trash bags around my cast so I can take my
first shower since I broke my leg. This is
sort of embarrassing to talk about, but
Mom has to help me keep my cast out of
the shower, so she holds the shower
curtain for me, protecting the cast, as I
straddle the edge of the tub, trying to keep
my weight on my good leg. Mom hands me
the soap when I need it and also the
shampoo. She pretends not to look at my
naked body, but I am sure she gets a
glimpse at some point, which makes me
feel strange. I haven't worked out in days,
so I feel very small and weak—but Mom
doesn't say anything about my diminished
girth, because she is a kind woman.
After my shower, Mom helps me put on
a pair of sweatpants she has modified,
cutting one leg off at the thigh so my cast
can fit through. I also put on a button-down
shirt from the Gap and my new leather
jacket. I hop down the steps, crutch my
way out the door and into the backseat of
Mom's car, sitting sideways so my cast
will fit.
When we arrive at the Voorhees house, I
crutch my way into Cliff's office, pick the
black recliner, prop my cast up on the
footrest, and tell Cliff everything.
When I finish my story, Cliff says, “So
you've been in bed since Christmas?”
“Yeah.”
“And you have no interest in reading or
watching television?”
“No.”
“And you're not working out your upper
body at all? No weights?”
“No.”
“What do you do all day?”
“I sleep, or I think. Sometimes I write,
but Danny has been coming to visit me
too.” I had already told Cliff all about God
reuniting Danny and me, which even Cliff
had to admit was a bit of a miracle and
maybe the silver lining to my awful
Christmas.
“What do you and Danny do when he
visits?”
“We play Parcheesi.”
“Parcheesi?”
“It's the Royal Game of India. How can
you not know it?”
“I know Parcheesi.  just surprised
you and Danny play board games
together.”
“Why?”
Cliff makes a funny face, but doesn't say
anything.
“Danny brings his Parcheesi game all
the way from North Philly. He rides the
trains.”
“That's good, right? It must be nice to
see your old friend.”
“I was sorry to learn that he still can't
rap, even after a second operation, but his
aunt got hima job doing the janitorial work
at her church, which is also a day-care
center. He wipes down the pews with pine
oil and mops the floors and empties the
trash and vacuums every night—stuff like
that. He smells like pine trees now too,
which is sort of a nice bonus. But Danny is
quieter than I remember him being in the
bad place.”
“Did you tell Danny about what Tiffany
did to you?” Cliff asks.
“Yeah, I did.”
“What did he say?”
“Nothing.”
“He didn't give you any advice?”
“I didn't ask himfor any advice.”
“I see.” Cliff grabs his chin, which lets
me know he is going to say something my
mother has told him. “Pat, I know how you
lost your memory. Everyone does.” He
pauses here, gauging my reaction. “And I
think you remember too. Do you?”
“No.”
“Do you want me to tell you how you
lost your memory?”
“No.”
“Why?”
I don't say anything.
“I know Dr. Timbers used to tell you the
story every day as part of your therapy.
That's why I never brought it up. I thought
maybe you would talk about it when you
were ready, but it's been almost five
months—and now you have a broken leg,
and things seem to have gotten worse. I
can't help feeling as though we need to
start trying other tactics. What Tiffany
suggested about closure is true.  not
saying her methods were honorable, but
you really do need to come to terms with
what happened, Pat. You need closure.”
“Maybe my movie isn't over,” I say,
because sometimes moviemakers trick the
audience with a false bad ending, and just
when you think the movie is going to end
badly, something dramatic happens, which
leads to the happy ending. This seems like
a good spot for something dramatic to
happen, especially since it's my birthday.
“Your life is not a movie, Pat. Life is
not a movie. You're an Eagles fan. After
watching so many NFL seasons without a
Super Bowl, you should know that real life
often ends poorly.”
“How can you say that now, especially
since the Eagles have won four straight and
are headed into the play-offs—even after
McNabb went down!” Cliff just looks at
me, almost as if he is scared, and suddenly
I realize that I was just yelling. But I can't
help adding, “With a negative attitude like
that, it will end poorly, Cliff! You're
starting to sound like Dr. Timbers! You
better watch out, or you're going to be
defeated by pessimism!”
There is a long silence, and Cliff looks
really worried, which begins to worry me.
On the drive home, Mom tells me that
people are coming over for my birthday.
She is making me a birthday dinner. “Is
Nikki coming?” I ask.
“No, Pat. Nikki is never coming,” Momsays. “Never.”
When we arrive home, Mom makes me
sit in the family room while she cooks
meat loaf and mashed potatoes and green
beans and an apple pie. She keeps trying to
talk to me, but I really do not feel like
talking.
Jake and Caitlin arrive first, and they try
to cheer me up by talking really
enthusiastically about the Birds, but it
doesn't work.
When Ronnie and Veronica arrive,
Emily climbs onto my lap, which makes
me feel a little better. Caitlin asks Emily if
she wants to draw a picture on my cast,
and when she nods, Mom finds some
markers and we all watch little Emily
draw. She starts off by making a wobbly
circle, which is understandable, since the
cast is not perfectly flat, nor smooth. But
then she just scribbles all sorts of colors
everywhere, and I cannot tell what she is
up to until she points to her creation and
says, “Pap!”
“Did you draw a picture of Uncle Pat?”
Ronnie says, and when Emily nods,
everyone laughs because it looks nothing
like me.
When we sit down at the dining-roomtable, my father is still not home. Even
after the win over Dallas, he has been
pretty distant lately, hiding in his study
again. Nobody mentions my dad's absence,
so I don't either.
Mom's meal is delicious, and everyone
says so.
When it is time for pie, they sing
“Happy Birthday” to me, and then little
Emily helps me blow out the candles that
make the shape of the number 35. I hardly
believe that I can actually be thirty-five,
because I still feel like I am thirty—maybe
I only wish I were thirty, because then I'd
have Nikki in my life.
After we eat our pie, Emily helps me
open my presents. I get a brand-new
wooden hand-painted Parcheesi board
from Mom, who says she invited Danny to
my party, but he had to work. Ronnie,
Emily, and Veronica give me an Eagles
fleece blanket. Jake and Caitlin give me a
membership to a gym in Philadelphia. The
brochure in the box says the club has a
pool and a steam room and basketball
courts and racquetball courts and all types
of weight-lifting equipment and other
machines that build muscles. “It's where I
work out,” my brother says. “And I was
thinking we could start working out
together once your leg mends.” Even
though  not all that interested in
working out so much anymore, I realize
that the membership is a nice present, so I
thank Jake.
When we retire to the living room, I ask
Veronica about Tiffany. “How's Tiffany?”
I say.  not really sure why I ask. The
words just sort of slip out of my mouth,
and when they do, everyone stops talking
and a silence hangs in the air.
“I invited her to your party,” Mom
finally offers, probably just so Veronica
will not feel badly about her sister being
excluded.
“Why?” Jake asks. “So she can lie to Pat
again? Set himback a few more years?”
“She was only trying to help,” Veronica
says.
“Your sister has a funny way of
helping.”
“Stop,” Caitlin says to Jake.
And then the roomis silent again.
“So how is she?” I ask, because I really
do want to know.
I Need a Huge Favor
On New Year's Eve day, after agreeing to
buy unlimited beer for our neighbors, Jake
manages to trade seats with the seasonticket holder in front of me—and once Jake
is seated, he props my cast up onto his
shoulder so I am able to sit down during
the Falcons game.
A few minutes into the first quarter,
head coach Andy Reid pulls the starters,
and the game announcer reports that Dallas
has somehow lost to Detroit, which means
that the Birds have clinched the NFC East
for the fifth time in the last six years and
the current game is meaningless. Everyone
in the Linc cheers, high fives abound, and
it is hard to stay in a seated position.
With the starting wide receivers out, I
get my hopes up for Hank Baskett, and he
actually does catch a few balls in the first
half, each of which Scott, Jake, and I
celebrate excessively because I amwearing my Baskett jersey over my winter
coat, and we all like to root for the
undrafted rookie.
It's 17–10 Eagles at halftime, and Scott
actually leaves the game, saying that he
promised his wife he'd come home for
New Year's Eve if the Cowboys lost and
the Eagles game became meaningless. I
give him a hard time about leaving and amsurprised that my brother does not join in
with the ribbing. But shortly after Scott
takes off, Jake says, “Listen, Pat. Caitlin
has me going to this black-tie New Year's
Eve party at the Rittenhouse Hotel. She
was mad at me for going to the game today,
and I was sort of thinking about taking off
early so I could surprise her. But I don't
want to leave you here with the cast and
all. So how do you feel about leaving
early?”
shocked, and a little mad.
“I want to see if Baskett gets his second
touchdown,” I say. “But you can go. I'll be
all right here with all the real Eagles fans
—the people who are staying to see the
whole game.” It's not a very nice thing for
me to say, especially since Caitlin is
probably already dressed and waiting for
Jake to come home, but the truth is, I need
my brother's help getting out of the Linc on
crutches. I have a feeling that Baskett will
get the ball a lot in the second half, and I
know Jake really wants to see the game
anyway; maybe he'll be able to use his
mentally ill brother as a good excuse for
missing the first part of Caitlin's New
Year's Eve party; maybe this is what Jake
really wants and needs. “Beer man!” I yell
to the Coors Light guy who is passing our
row. When he stops, I say, “Only one beer
because this guy here is leaving his
crippled, mentally insane brother to go to
the Rittenhouse Hotel so that he can swill
champagne with non-Eagles fans in
tuxedos.” My brother looks like I punched
him in the gut, and soon he is pulling out
his wallet.
“All right. Fuck it. Make it two beers,”
Jake says, and I smile as my brother sits
down in Scott's seat and helps me prop my
cast up onto the back of the empty seat in
front of me.
Through the second half, Baskett
continues to catch A. J. Feeley's throws,
and early in the fourth quarter my favorite
player runs an out, catches the ball, and
runs down the sideline eighty-nine yards
for the second touchdown of his young
career. Jake helps me stand, and then
everyone in our section is high-fiving me
and slapping my back because over my
coat I am wearing the Baskett jersey my
brother gave me when I first got out of the
bad place.
I would later learn that Baskett is the
first Eagles player to catch two touchdown
passes longer than eighty yards in the same
season—which is an accomplishment,
even if number 84 has only been a
marginal player this year.
“And you wanted to leave,” I say to
Jake.
“Go Baskett!” he says, and then gives
me a one-armed sideways hug—shoulderto-shoulder.
After the Eagles' backup players win the
last regular season game, the Birds finish
their season at 10-6, locking up at least one
home play-off game in the process. I crutch
my way out of the Linc with Jake as my
fullback, parting the crowds, shouting,
“Cripple coming through! Cripple coming
through! Move out the way!”
We don't meet up with Cliff's gang until
we get back to the fat men's tent and the
Asian Invasion bus. But when we do, our
friends greet us with a Baskett chant
because number 84 had a career-high 177-
yard day and an 89-yard TD.
With play-offs to discuss, everyone is
reluctant to leave, so we drink beers and
discuss the 8-8 Giants, whom the Birds
will play in the first round. When Cliff
asks me if I think our team will beat the
Giants, I tell my therapist, “Not only will
the Eagles win, but Hank Baskett will
catch another touchdown.”
Cliff nods and smiles and says, “You
called it before the season even started:
Hank Baskett is the man!”
Jake leaves first because he and Caitlin
have that hotel New Year's Eve party to
attend, so we all make fun of him and call
him whipped—but even though he is
leaving us for his woman, I give him a hug
and thank him again for staying, getting me
a season ticket, and paying for the play-off
tickets too, which are pretty expensive.
And I know Jake has forgiven me for
making him miss the second Dallas game,
because he hugs me back and says, “No
problem, brother. I love you. Always. You
know that.”
After Jake leaves, we drink beers for
another half hour or so, but eventually
many of the guys admit they too have New
Year's Eve plans with their wives, and I
take the Asian Invasion bus home to New
Jersey.
The Eagles have won the last five games
and the NFC East, so there's no stopping
Ashwini from blowing the Asian Invasion
bus horn when he pulls up to my parents'
house, and when he does, the chant blares
loudly—“E!-A!-G!-L!-E!-S! EAGLES!”—which brings my mother to the door.
Standing on the front step, Mom and I
wave as the green bus pulls away.
We eat a late New Year's Eve dinner
together as a family, but even after another
Eagles win and with Super Bowl hopes
alive, my father doesn't say much, and he
heads for his study before Mom finishes
her meal, probably so he can read
historical fiction.
Just before the ball drops on Dad's huge
flat-screen television, Mom asks me if I
want to go outside and bang pots and pans
like we used to do when I was a kid. I tell
Mom I don't really want to bang pots and
pans, especially since I am tired from
spending the day outside in the cold, so
from the couch, we watch people
celebrating in Times Square.
Two thousand and six becomes 2007.
“It's going to be a good year for us,”
Momsays, and then forces a smile.
I smile back at Mom, not because I think
it is going to be a good year, but because
my father went to bed an hour ago, Nikki
never came back, there's not even the
slightest inclination to suggest that 2007 is
going to be a good year for either Mom or
me, and yet Mom is still trying to find that
silver lining she taught me about so long
ago. She is still holding on to hope. “It's
going to be a good year,” I say.
When Mom falls asleep on the couch, I
turn off the television and watch her
breathe. She still looks pretty, and seeing
her resting so peacefully makes me angry
at my dad, even though I know he can't
change who he is, but I wish that he would
at least try to appreciate Mom more and
spend some quality time with her,
especially since he doesn't even have the
Eagles to be grumpy about anymore,
because the season is already a success
regardless of what happens in the playoffs, especially after making it this far
without McNabb. And yet I know my father
is not likely to change, because I have
known him for thirty-five years, and he has
always been the same man.
Mom tucks her knees and elbows in
close to her body and begins to shiver, so I
push myself up, grab my crutches, and
crutch my way over to the closet. I pull a
blanket from the bottom of the closet,
crutch my way over to Mom, and cover her
—but she continues to shiver. Back at the
closet, I see a heavier blanket on the top
shelf, so I reach up and pull it down. It
falls on top of my head just after I hear a
little crash. I look down, and by my feet is
a videocassette in a white plastic case that
has two ringing bells on the cover.
I crutch my way over to my mother and
cover her with the heavier blanket.
It is hard to pick up the cassette with my
cast preventing me from squatting—I
actually have to sit down on the floor to
pick it up. After sliding over to the TV, I
slip the cassette into the VCR. I look over
my shoulder, checking to make sure that
Mom is sleeping soundly, and then turn
down the volume before I hit PLAY.
The video is not completely rewound,
and the part that pops up on-screen is the
beginning of the reception dinner. Our
guests are seated in the banquet room of
the Glenmont Country Club, which is near
a golf course in a swanky little town just
outside Baltimore. The camera is focused
on the entrance doorway, but you can see
the dance floor and the band too. Using the
microphone, the lead singer says, “Let's
introduce the wedding party Philly style,”
at which point the horn section of the band
begins playing the opening notes of “Gonna
Fly Now!” The guitarist and bassist and
drummer soon begin playing, and even
though it doesn't sound exactly like
Rocky's theme song, it's close enough to
get the job done.
“Parents of the groom, Mr. and Mrs.
Patrick Peoples!”
Our guests clap politely as my mom and
dad cross the dance floor arm in arm, and
the painful expression on my father's face
suggests that this was one of the worst
experiences of his life—being announced
at my wedding.
“Parents of the bride, Mr. and Mrs.
George Gates.”
Nikki's parents do a little skipping
routine into the banquet hall, making themlook sloshed, which they were, and I laugh
thinking about how much fun my in-laws
were when they drank. I really do miss
Nikki's parents.
“Bridesmaid, Elizabeth Richards, and
groomsman, Ronnie Brown.”
Liz and Ronnie come out waving to our
guests, as if they are royalty or something,
which was strange, and the tactic all but
mutes their applause. Ronnie looks young
in the video, and I think about how he was
not yet a father, how Emily did not even
exist when this video was shot.
“Maid of honor, Wendy Rumsford, and
best man, Jake Peoples!”
Jake and Wendy walk across the dance
floor and directly toward the camera until
their faces are life-size on my father's huge
flat-screen television. Wendy just sort of
screams like she is at an Eagles game or
something, but Jake says, “I love you,
brother!” and then kisses the camera lens,
leaving a lip-shaped smudge mark. I see
the videographer's hand emerge and
quickly wipe the lens with a piece of cloth.
“And now, for the first time ever, allow
me to introduce Mr. and Mrs. Pat
Peoples!”
Everyone stands and cheers as we walk
into the banquet room. Nikki looks so
pretty in her wedding dress. She's holding
her head in that cute, shy position, with her
chin close to her chest, and seeing her now
makes me cry because I miss her so much.
When we move to the dance floor, the
band shifts gears, and I hear those sexy
synthesizer chords, faint high-hat taps, and
then the soprano saxophonist steps forward
and “Songbird” takes flight.
Something in my mind begins to melt,
and it feels as though I am experiencing an
ice-cream headache—or as if someone is
churning my brain with an ice pick.  not
seeing the television screen anymore, seeing the road through a fogged
windshield, and it's raining something
fierce. It's not even four in the afternoon,
but it's as dark as midnight.  upset
because we have a big game coming up
and yet the gym roof is leaking again like a
sieve, which has forced me to cancel
basketball practice.
All I want to do is take a shower and
then watch game tapes.
But when I enter my house, I hear a
soprano sax moaning, and it's strange to
hear Kenny G's smooth jazz coming from
my bathroom at a time like this. Mr. G's
notes are swirling all about. I open the
bathroom door; I feel the steam lick my
skin, and I wonder why Nikki is listening
to our wedding song in the shower. Kenny
G's solo has reached a climax once more.
The CD player is on the sink, and two
piles of clothes rest on the floor, and a pair
of men's glasses are on the sink next to the
CD player. Sexy synthesizer chords, faint
high-hat taps.
“You fucking whore!” I scream as I rip
the shower curtain off the rod, exposing so
much awful, soapy flesh.
 standing in the tub. My hands are
around his throat.  between them now,
the shower is spraying the back of my coat
with hot spokes, weighing down my
sweatpants, and he is in the air, begging me
with his eyes, pleading for a breath of air.
His hands are trying to break my grip, but
he is a tiny, weak man. Nikki is screaming;
Kenny G is playing; Nikki's lover is
turning purple. He's so small, I can hold
him up against the tiles with one hand. I
cock my elbow back, squeeze a tight, teethshattering fist, and take aim. His nose
explodes like a packet of ketchup. His eyes
are rolling into the back of his head; his
hands have fallen away from mine. When I
cock back my fist a second time, the music
stops playing, and then  on my back in
the tub and Nikki's naked lover has fallen
out of the tub and naked Nikki is holding
the CD player in her trembling hands.
When I try to stand, she smashes the CD
player over my head once more; my knees
give out, and I see the silver faucet rise
like some fat, shiny snake to strike the hard
spot just above my right eyebrow, and then
—
—I wake up in a hospital and immediately
begin vomiting all over myself, until nurses
arrive and tell me not to move my head.
And  crying and calling for Nikki, but
she does not come to me. My head hurts so
badly. When I touch my forehead, I feel
some sort of bandage, but then my hands
are being forced to my sides. The nurses
are screaming and holding me down, and
then doctors are restraining me too. I feel a
prick in my arm, and …
When I blink, I see my reflection in the
blank television screen. The video has
ended. I look life-size on my father's flat
screen, and I can see my mother asleep on
the couch, just over my right shoulder. As I
continue to stare at myself, my little white
scar begins to itch, but I do not really want
to smash my forehead with my fist.
I find my feet and crutch my way into the
kitchen. The address book is still in the
cabinet above the stove. I place a call to
Jake's apartment. As the phone rings, I
look at the microwave and see that it is
2:54 a.m., but I remember that Jake is at a
swanky hotel party and won't be home
until tomorrow, so I decide to leave a
message.
Hello, you've reached Jake and
Caitlin's machine. Please leave a
message after the beep. Beep.
“Jake, it's your brother, Pat. I need a
huge favor …”
Best Intentions
Pat,
It's been a while, hopefully long
enough.
If you haven't ripped up this letter
already, please read until the end. As you
have discovered, I am a much better
writer than I am a speaker at this point in
my life.
Everybody hates me.
Did you know your brother came to my
house and threatened to kill me if I made
contact with you? His sincerity scared me
—enough to keep me from writing earlier.
Even my parents have reproached me for
pretending to be Nikki. My therapist says
my betrayal might not be forgivable, and
by the way she kept repeating the word
“unforgivable,” I could tell she was very
disappointed in me. But the truth is, I did
it for your benefit. Yes, I was hoping that
once you found closure and got over
Nikki, you would want to give me a shot—
especially since we are such great dance
partners, we both enjoy running, we are
in similar housing situations, and let's
face it, we're both fighting hard to
maintain our grip on reality. We have a
lot in common, Pat. I still believe you fell
into my life for a reason.
Because I love you, I want to tell you
something I have never told anyone—
except my therapist. It's sort of screwed
up, so I hope you will be able to handle it.
At first I wasn't going to tell you, but I
figured the situation couldn't get any
worse, and maybe a little honesty could
go a long way right now.
I don't know if you know this, but
Tommy was a cop. He worked for the
Meadowville Police Department and was
assigned to the high school sort of as a
counselor. So half of his hours were spent
working with and counseling troubled
teenagers, and the other half of his hours
he was just a regular cop.  telling you
this because it is important to understand
that Tommy was a good man. He did not
deserve to die, and his death absolutely
proves that life is random and fucked-up
and arbitrary, until you find someone
who can make sense of it all for you—if
only temporarily.
Anyway, Tommy was really good with
teenagers, and he even started a club at
the high school designed to raise
awareness about the dangers of drinking
and driving. Many of the parents thought
the club condoned underage drinking,
because it was not an anti-underagedrinking club but just an anti-drinkingand-driving club, so Tommy had to fight
really hard to keep it afloat. Tommy told
me that a lot of the high school kids
drank every weekend, and underage
drinking was even condoned by many of
the town's parents. And the funniest thing
to me was that the kids came to him and
asked him to start the club because they
were worried that someone was going to
get hurt or die if their friends kept
driving home after parties. Can you
imagine talking to a cop like that when
you were a teenager? That's the kind of
guy Tommy was, people trusted him
instantly.
So Tommy organized assemblies and
even put together this teacher karaoke
night where students could pay money to
hear their favorite teachers perform the
current hits. Tommy could talk people
into doing things like that. I'd go to these
events, and Tommy would be up on the
stage with all those teenagers, and he'd
be singing and dancing with the other
teachers, all of whom he had convinced to
dress up in wild costumes—and parents,
students, administrators would be all
smiles. You couldn't help it, because
Tommy was such a burst of positive
energy. And he always gave speeches
during these events—listing facts and
statistics about drinking and driving.
People listened to Tommy. People loved
him. I loved him so fucking much, Pat.
A funny thing about Tommy was he
liked to have sex a lot. He always wanted
to make love. I mean, as soon as he got
home from work, his hands were all over
me. I'd wake up every morning and he'd
be on top of me. We could hardly eat a
meal together without his hands sliding
under the table, searching for my legs.
And if Tommy was home, there was no
way I'd ever get through a television
show, because as soon as a commercial
came on, he'd be rock hard and giving me
that look. It was pretty wild, and I loved
it for the first ten years of our marriage.
But after ten years of nonstop sex, I got a
little tired of it. I mean—life is more than
sex, right? So one bright sunny morning,
after we had just finished making love
under the kitchen table, the teakettle
whistled, so I stood and poured two cups.
“ thinking maybe we should limit
sex to so many times a week,” I said.
I'll never forget the look on his face.
He looked as if I had shot him in the
stomach.
“Is something wrong?” he said. “Am I
doing something wrong?”
“No. It's not like that at all.”
“Then what?”
“I don't know. Is it normal to have sex
several times a day?”
“Don't you love me anymore?” Tommy
asked me with this wounded-little-boy
look I still see whenever I close my eyes
at night.
Of course I told Tommy I loved him
more than ever, but I just wanted to slow
down a little with the sex. I told him I
wanted to talk with him more, take walks,
and find some new hobbies, so sex could
be special again. “Having this much
sex,” I told him, “sort of takes the magic
out of it.” For some odd reason, I
remember suggesting that we go
horseback riding.
“So you're telling me the magic is
gone?” he said, and that question was the
last thing he ever did say to me. So you're
telling me the magic is gone?
I remember talking a lot after he said
that, telling him we could have sex as
much as he wanted and that this was just
a suggestion, but he was wounded. He
was looking at me suspiciously the whole
time, as if I were cheating on him or
something like that. But I wasn't. I just
wanted to slow down a little so I could
appreciate sex more. Too much of a good
thing, was all I wanted to tell him. But it
was clear I had hurt him, because before
I could finish explaining, he stood up and
went upstairs to take a shower. He left
the house without saying goodbye.
I got the call at work. All I remember
hearing was that Tommy was hurt and
had been rushed to West Jersey Hospital.
When I got to the hospital, there were a
dozen men in blue uniforms, cops
everywhere. Their glistening eyes told
me.
Later I would find out that Tommy had
gone to the Cherry Hill Mall during his
lunch break. They found a Victoria's
Secret bag full of lingerie in his cruiser—
every piece was my size. On his way back
to Meadowville, he stopped on the
highway to help an elderly woman whose
car had broken down. Tommy called her a
tow truck, but then he stood at the
nervous old lady's window chatting with
her, keeping her company while she
waited. Tommy was always chatting with
people like that. The cruiser was behind
him, the lights were going, but he was
standing at the edge of the highway's
breakdown lane. Some driver who had
drunk his lunch dropped his cell phone,
and when he bent down to pick it up, he
pulled the wheel to the right, crossed two
lanes, and …
The lead in the local paper read
“Police Of icer Thomas Reed—who was
responsible for starting Meadowville
High School's Anti-Drinking-and-Driving
Club—was killed by a drunk driver.” It
was all so ironic, almost funny in a
sadistic way. There were so many cops at
his funeral. Kids from the high school
made our front lawn into a living
memorial—they stood on the sidewalk
with candles and flowers. When I refused
to go outside, these teenagers sang so
sweetly to me through the first few
evenings, a chorus of sad, beautiful
voices. Our friends brought food, Father
Carey talked to me about heaven, my
parents cried with me, and Ronnie and
Veronica stayed at our house for the first
few weeks or so. But the only thing I
could think about was how Tommy died
believing I no longer wanted to have sex
with him. I felt so guilty, Pat. I wanted to
die. I kept thinking he would not have
gone to Victoria's Secret on his lunch
break if we had not had the fight, and
then he would have never passed the old
woman in the broken-down car, which
meant he would not have been killed. I
felt so guilty. I still feel so fucking guilty.
After a few weeks I went back to work,
but everything in my mind got switched
up. My guilt turned to need, and suddenly
I was craving sex very badly. So I started
to fuck men—any man who was game. All
I really had to do was look at a man in
that certain way, and within a few
seconds I knew if they were going to fuck
me. And when they did, I would close my
eyes and pretend it was Tommy. To be
with my husband again, I'd fuck men
anywhere. In a car. In the coatroom at
work. In an alley. Behind a bush. In a
public restroom. Anywhere. But in my
mind, it was always under the kitchen
table, and Tommy had come back to me,
and I had told him I wasn't tired of
having sex, but would make love to him as
many times as he needed, because I loved
him with all my heart.
I was sick. And there was no shortage
of men who were eager to capitalize on
my sickness. There were men everywhere
who—with glee—would fuck this mentally
ill woman.
Of course this led to my losing my job,
therapy, and many medical tests. Luckily,
I did not contract any diseases, and I'd
be happy to get tested again if that ever
becomes an issue for us. But even if I had
contracted AIDS or whatever, it would
have been worth it to me at the time,
because I needed that closure. I needed
that forgiveness. I needed to live out the
fantasy. I needed to fuck away my guilt so
I could break out of the fog I was in, to
feel something, to feel anything, and begin
to start my life again, which I am only
now beginning to do—since we became
friends.
I have to admit that during Veronica's
dinner party I only thought of you as an
easy lay. I sized you up in your stupid
Eagles jersey and figured I could get you
to fuck me, so I could pretend you were
Tommy. I hadn't done it in a long time. I
no longer wanted to have sex with
strangers, but you weren't a stranger.
You were handpicked by my own sister.
You were a safe man with whom Ronnie
was trying to set me up. So I figured I
would begin to have sex with you
regularly, just so I could fantasize about
Tommy again.
But when you held me in front of my
parents' house, and when you cried with
me, things changed—in a very dramatic
way. I did not understand it at first, but
as we ran together and ate raisin bran at
the diner and went to the beach and
became friends—simply friends, without
any sex to complicate things—it was sort
of nice in a way I hadn't anticipated. I
just liked being around you, even if we
didn't say anything.
I knew I had feelings for you when I
began to cringe inwardly at the sound of
Nikki's name. It was obvious you were
not ever going to get back together with
your wife, so I called your mom and got
her drunk at the local bar, and she told
me everything about you. You didn't see
me, but I was in the driveway when she
came home so loaded and you helped her
into the house. I drove her home that
night. After what happened to Tommy, I
don't drink at all. We've been meeting
every week since, Pat. She needed a
friend; she needed to talk to someone
about your father. So I listened. At first I
was just using her for information, but
now we are sort of girlfriends. She did
not know about the letters I was writing
as Nikki, and she was really mad at me
for a while after the Christmas episode,
but she knows about this letter obviously,
since she delivered it for me. She is a
very strong and forgiving woman, Pat.
She deserves better than your father, and
maybe you deserve better than me. Life is
funny like that.
I wrote those letters hoping to provide
you with the closure I somehow found
through casual sex after Tommy died.
Please know I began the liaison scheme
only after I was certain that Nikki would
never agree to talk to you again under
any circumstance. Maybe you will never
be able to forgive me, but I wanted you to
know I had the best intentions—and I still
love you in my own fucked-up way.
I miss you, Pat. I really do. Can we at
least be friends?
Tif any
Booyah!
When Danny finishes reading Tiffany's
latest letter, he sighs, scratches his Afro,
and looks out my bedroom window for a
long time. I want his reaction because he is
the only person I know who doesn't
already have a strong opinion about
Tiffany. Everyone else is obviously biased
—even Cliff.
“So,” I finally say from my bed. sitting with my back against the headboard
and my cast propped up on a few pillows.
“What do you think I should do?”
Danny sits down, opens up the Parcheesi
box, and takes out the hand-painted
wooden board and pieces my mother gave
me for my birthday. “I feel like being red
today,” he says. “What color you want?”
After I pick blue, we set up the board on
the little table my mother put in the roomfor us when I first came home with a
broken leg. We play Parcheesi like we
always do when Danny visits, and it
becomes obvious that he isn't going to
weigh in with an opinion regarding
Tiffany, probably because he knows that
only I can make this decision—but maybe
because he just wants to play the game. He
loves Parcheesi more than any man I have
ever met, and when he lands on one of my
spots and sends one of my pieces back to
the start circle, Danny always points at my
face and yells, “Booyah!” which makes me
laugh because he is so goddamn serious
about Parcheesi.
Even though I don't really enjoy playing
Parcheesi as much as Danny does—and he
won't answer any of my questions about
Tiffany—it's nice to have him back in my
life again.
We play Parcheesi for so many hours—
days pass, and my record against Danny
grows to 32 wins and 203 losses. Danny is
a supreme Parcheesi player, and the best
dice roller I have ever met. When he says,
“Papa needs a doublet,” he almost always
rolls two sixes. Whatever Papa needs,
Danny rolls.
Break Free of a Nimbostratus
A week after my cast has been removed, I
stand alone on the footbridge in Knight's
Park, leaning my weight on the railing,
gazing down at a pond I could walk around
in less than five minutes. The water
underneath me has a thin layer of ice on
top, and I think about dropping rocks
through it, but I do not know why,
especially since I have no rocks. Even
still, I want to drop rocks through the ice
so badly, to puncture it, proving that it is
weak and temporary, to see the black
water below rise up and out of the hole I
alone will have created.
I think about the hidden fish—mostly
those big goldfish people stock the pond
with so old men will have something to
feed in spring and little boys will have
something to catch in the summer—fish
now burrowed in the mud at the bottom of
the pond. Or are these fish burrowing just
yet? Will they wait until the pond freezes
completely?
Here's a thought:  like Holden
Caulfield thinking about ducks, only thirty-five years old and Holden was a
teenager. Maybe the accident knocked my
brain back into teenager mode?
Part of me wants to climb up onto the
railing and jump off the bridge, which is
only ten yards long, only three feet above
the pond; part of me wants to break through
the ice with my feet, to plunge down,
down, down into the mud, where I can
sleep for months and forget about all I now
remember and know. Part of me wishes I
never regained my memory, that I still had
that false hope to cling to—that I still had
at least the idea of Nikki to keep me
moving forward.
When I finally look up from the ice and
toward the soccer fields, I see that Tiffany
has accepted my invitation to meet, just
like Cliff said she would. She is only two
inches tall in the distance, wearing a
yellow ski cap and a white coat that covers
most of her thighs, making her look like a
wingless angel growing and growing—and
I watch her pass the swing sets and the
large pavilion with picnic tables inside. I
watch her walk along the water's edge
until she finally reaches her usual height,
which is five feet and a few inches tall.
When she steps onto the footbridge, I
immediately look down at the thin layer of
ice again.
Tiffany walks over to me and stands so
her arm is almost touching mine, but not
quite. Using my peripheral vision, I see
that she too is now looking down at the thin
layer of ice, and I wonder if she also
wishes she could drop some rocks.
We stand like this for what seems like
an hour, neither of us saying anything.
My face gets very cold, until I can no
longer feel my nose or ears.
Finally, without looking at Tiffany, I
say, “Why didn't you come to my birthday
party?” which is a stupid question to pose
at this time, I realize, but I can't think of
anything else to say, especially since I
haven't seen Tiffany for many weeks—not
since I screamed at her on Christmas Day.
“My mom said she invited you. So why
didn't you come?”
After a long pause, Tiffany says, “Well,
like I said in my letter, your brother
threatened to kill me if I made contact with
you. Also, Ronnie came to my house the
day before your party and forbade me to
go. He said they never should have
introduced us in the first place.”
I had already talked to Jake about his
threat, but I have a hard time imagining
Ronnie saying such a thing to Tiffany. And
yet I know Tiffany is telling the truth. She
seems really hurt and vulnerable right now,
especially because she is sort of chewing
on her bottom lip as if it were a piece of
gum. Surely Ronnie said these words
against Veronica's wishes. His wife would
never let him say something so potentially
ego-damaging to Tiffany, and the thought of
Ronnie keeping Tiffany from attending my
party makes me a little proud of my best
friend, especially since he went against his
wife's wishes to protect me.
“Bros B4 Hos” is what Danny said to
me every time I would lament Nikki, back
when we were both in the bad place—
before he had that second operation. In art
therapy class, Danny even made me a little
poster with the words written in stylish
gold letters, which I hung on the wall
space between my bed and my roommate
Jackie's—back in the bad place—but one
of the evil nurses took Danny's artwork
down when I was not in the room, a fact
Jackie confirmed by blinking and banging
his head against his shoulder. Even though
I realize the phrase is sort of sexist
(because men should not refer to women as
hos), saying “Bros B4 Hos” in my mind
now sort of makes me smile, especially
since Ronnie is my best bro in New Jersey,
now that Jake and Danny live in PA.
“ sorry, Pat. Is that what you want to
hear? Well, I'll say it again,  really,
really fucking sorry.” Even though Tiffany
uses the f-word, her voice sort of quivers
like Mom's when she says something she
truly means, and it makes me think that
Tiffany might actually start crying right
here on the bridge. “ a screwed-up
person who no longer knows how to
communicate with the people I love. But I
meant everything I told you in my letter. If I
were your Nikki, I would have come back
to you on Christmas Day, but  not
Nikki. I know. And sorry.”
I don't know what to say in response, so
we stand there for many minutes, saying
nothing.
Suddenly—for some crazy reason—I
want to tell Tiffany the ending of the
movie, the one that was my old life. I
figure she should know the ending,
especially since she had a starring role.
And then the words are spilling out of me.
“I decided to confront Nikki, just to let
her know I remember what happened
between us but do not hold any grudges.
My brother drove me to my old house in
Maryland, and it turns out that Nikki is still
living there, which I thought was sort of
strange, especially since she has a new me
—this guy Phillip who works with Nikki
as a fellow English teacher and always
used to call me an illiterate buffoon
because I never used to read literary
books,” I say, leaving out the part about my
strangling and punching naked Phillip
when I caught him in the shower with
Nikki, “and if I were Phillip, I probably
would not want to live in my wife's exhusband's house, because that is just sort
of weird, right?”
Tiffany doesn't say anything when I
pause, so I just keep on talking.
“When we drove down my old street, it
was snowing, which is a little more rare in
Maryland and therefore a big deal to little
kids. There was only maybe a half inch on
the ground—a dusting—but enough to
scoop up in your hands. I saw Nikki
outside with Phillip, and they were playing
with two children—by the colors each was
dressed in, I figured the one in navy blue
was a little boy and the one mostly in
peach was an even littler girl. After we
rolled by, I told Jake to circle the block
and park the car half a block away so we
could watch Nikki's new family play in the
snow. My old house is on a busy street, so
we weren't likely to draw Nikki's
attention. Jake did as I asked and then
killed the engine but left the windshield
wipers on so he could see. I rolled down
my window, as I was in the backseat
because of my cast, and we watched the
family play for a long time—so long that
Jake finally started the car back up and
turned on the heat because he was too cold.
Nikki was wearing the long green-and-
white-striped scarf I used to wear to
Eagles games, a brown barn coat, and red
mittens. Her strawberry blond hair hung
freely from under her green hat, so many
curls. They were having a snowball fight;
Nikki's new family was having a beautiful
snowball fight. You could tell the kids
loved their father and mother, and the
father loved the mother, and the mother
loved the father, and the parents loved the
children—as they all tossed the snow at
each other so lovingly, taking turns chasing
each other, laughing and falling into one
another's heavily bundled bodies, and …”
I pause here because I amhaving trouble
getting the words out of my throat.
“And I squinted hard trying to see
Nikki's face, and even froma block away I
could tell she was smiling the whole time
and was so very happy, and somehow that
was enough for me to officially end apart
time and roll the credits of my movie
without even confronting Nikki, so I just
asked Jake to drive me back to New
Jersey, which he did, because he is
probably the best brother in the entire
world. So I guess I just want Nikki to be
happy, even if her happy life doesn't
include me, because I had my chance and I
wasn't a very good husband and Nikki was
a great wife, and …”
I have to pause again. I swallow several
times.
“And  just going to remember that
scene as the happy ending of my old life's
movie. Nikki having a snowball fight with
her new family. She looked so happy—and
her new husband, and her two children …”
I stop talking because no more words
will come out. It's as if the cold air has
already frozen my tongue and throat—as if
the cold is spreading down into my lungs
and is freezing my chest from the inside
out.
Tiffany and I stand on the bridge for a
long time.
Even though my face is numb, I begin to
feel a warmth in my eyes, and suddenly I
realize I am sort of crying again. I wipe my
eyes and nose with my coat sleeve, and
then I amsobbing.
Only when I finish crying does Tiffany
finally speak, although she doesn't talk
about Nikki. “I got you a birthday present,
but it's nothing much. And I didn't wrap it
or get you a card or anything, because,
well … because  your fucked-up friend
who does not buy cards or wrap presents.
And I know it's more than a month late, but
anyway …”
She takes off her gloves, undoes a few
buttons, and pulls my present from the
inside pocket of her coat.
I take it from her hands, a collection of
ten or so heavily laminated pages—maybe
four by eight inches each and held together
by a silver bolt in the top left corner. The
cover reads:
SKYWATCHER'S
CLOUD
CHART
An easy to use,
durable identifying chart
for all outdoor enthusiasts
“You were always looking up at clouds
when we used to run,” Tiffany says, “so I
thought you might like to be able to tell the
difference between the shapes.”
With excitement, I rotate the cover
upward so I can read the first heavily
laminated page. After reading all about the
four basic cloud shapes—stratus, nimbus,
cumulus, and cirrus—after looking at all
the beautiful pictures documenting the
different variations of the four groups,
somehow Tiffany and I end up lying on our
backs in the middle of the exact soccer
field I used to play on when I was a kid.
We look up at the sky, and it's a sheet of
winter gray, but Tiffany says maybe if we
wait long enough, a shape will break free,
and we will be able to identify the single
cloud using my new Skywatcher's Cloud
Chart. We lie there on the frozen ground
for a very long time, waiting, but all we
see up in the sky is the solid gray blanket,
which my new cloud chart identifies as a
nimbostratus—“a gray cloud mass fromwhich widespread and continuous rain or
snow falls.”
After a time, Tiffany's head ends up on
my chest, and my arm ends up around her
shoulders so that I am pulling her body
close to mine. We shiver together alone on
the field for what seems like hours. When
it begins to snow, the flakes fall huge and
fast. Almost immediately the field turns
white, and this is when Tiffany whispers
the strangest thing. She says, “I need you,
Pat Peoples; I need you so fucking bad,”
and then she begins to cry hot tears onto my
skin as she kisses my neck softly and
sniffles.
It is a strange thing for her to say, so far
removed from a regular woman's “I love
you,” and yet probably more true. It feels
good to hold Tiffany close to me, and I
remember what my mother said back when
I tried to get rid of my friend by asking her
to go to the diner with me. Mom said,
“You need friends, Pat. Everybody does.”
I also remember that Tiffany lied to me
for many weeks; I remember the awful
story Ronnie told me about Tiffany's
dismissal from work and what she
admitted to in her most recent letter; I
remember just how bizarre my friendship
with Tiffany has been—but then I
remember that no one else but Tiffany
could really even come close to
understanding how I feel after losing Nikki
forever. I remember that apart time is
finally over, and while Nikki is gone for
good, I still have a woman in my arms who
has suffered greatly and desperately needs
to believe once again that she is beautiful.
In my arms is a woman who has given me a
Skywatcher's Cloud Chart, a woman who
knows all my secrets, a woman who knows
just how messed up my mind is, how many
pills  on, and yet she allows me to hold
her anyway. There's something honest
about all of this, and I cannot imagine any
other woman lying in the middle of a
frozen soccer field with me—in the middle
of a snowstorm even—impossibly hoping
to see a single cloud break free of a
nimbostratus.
Nikki would not have done this for me,
not even on her best day.
So I pull Tiffany a little closer, kiss the
hard spot between her perfectly plucked
eyebrows, and after a deep breath, I say, “I
think I need you too.”