Chapter One
It's so hard to talk when you want to kill yourself.
That's above and beyond everything else, and it's not a
mental complaint—it's a physical thing, like it's
physically hard to open your mouth and make the words
come out. They don't come out smooth and in
conjunction with your brain the way normal people's
words do; they come out in chunks as if from a crushedice dispenser; you stumble on them as they gather
behind your lower lip. So you just keep quiet.
“Have you ever noticed how on all the ads on TV,
people are watching TV?” my friend is like.
“Pass it, son,” my other friend is like.
“No, yo, that's true,” my other other friend is like.
“There's always somebody on a couch, unless it's an
allergy ad and they're in a field—”
“Or on a horse on the beach.”
“Those ads are always for herpes.”
Laughter.
“How do you even tell someone you have that?” That's
Aaron. It's his house. “That must be such a weird
conversation: ‘Hey, before we do this, you should know
…'”
“Your moms didn't mind last night.”
“Ohhhh!”
“Son!”
Aaron lobs a punch at Ronny, the antagonist. Ronny is
small and wears jewelry; he once told me, Craig, when
a man puts on his first piece of jewelry, there's no
turning back. He punches back with his hand with the
big limp gold bracelet on it; it hits Aaron's watch,
clanging.
“Son, what you tryin'to do with my gold, yo?” Ronny
shakes his wrist and turns his attention to the pot.
There's always pot at Aaron's house; he has a room
with an entirely separate ventilation system and
lockable door that his parents could rent out as another
apartment. Resin streaks outline his light switch, and
his bedsheet is pockmarked with black circles. There 
are stains on there, too, shimmery stains which indicate
certain activities that take place between Aaron and his
girlfriend. I look at them (the stains, then the couple).
I'm jealous. But then again, I'm beyond jealous.
“Craig? You want?”
It's passed to me, wrapped up in a concise delivery
system, but I pass it on. I'm doing an experiment with
my brain. I'm seeing if maybe pot is the problem;
maybe that's what has come in and robbed me. I do this
every so often, for a few weeks, and then I smoke a lot
of pot, just to test if maybe the lack of it is what has
robbed me.
“You all right, man?”
This should be my name. I could be like a superhero:
You All Right Man.
“Ah…” I stumble.
“Don't bug Craig,” Ronny is like. “He's in the Craig
zone. He's Craig-ing out.”
“Yeah.” I move the muscles that make me smile. “I'm
just. . . kinda . . . you know .. .”
You see how the words work? They betray your mouth
and walk away.
“Are you okay?” Nia asks. Nia is Aaron's girlfriend.
She's in physical contact with Aaron at all times. Right
now she's on the floor next to his leg. She has big eyes.
“I'm fine,” I tell her. The blue glow of the flat-screen
TV in front of us ricochets off her eyes as she turns
back to it. We're watching a nature special on the deep
ocean.
“Holy shit, look at that, son!” Ronny is like, blowing
smoke—I don't know how it got back to him already.
There's an octopus on the screen with giant ears,
translucent, flapping through the water in the cold light
of a submersible.
“Scientists have playfully named this specimen
Dumbo,” the TV narrator says.
I smile to myself. I have a secret: I wish I was Dumbo
the Octopus. Adapted to freezing deep-ocean
temperatures, I'd flop around down there at peace. The
big concerns of my life would be what sort of bottomcoating slime to feed off of—that's not so different
from now—plus I wouldn't have any natural predators;
then again, I don't have any now, and that hasn't done
me a whole lot of good. But it suddenly makes sense:
I'd like to be under the sea, as an octopus.
“I'll be back,” I say, getting up from my spot on the
couch, which Scruggs, a friend who was relegated to 
the floor, immediately claims, slinking up in one fluid
motion.
“You didn't call one-five,” he's like.
“One-five?” I try.
“Too late.”
I shrug and climb over clothes and people's legs to the
beige, apartment-front-door-style door; I move through
that, to the right: Aaron's warm bathroom.
I have a system with bathrooms. I spend a lot of time in
them. They are sanctuaries, public places of peace
spaced throughout the world for people like me. When I
pop into Aaron's, I continue my normal routine of
wasting time. I turn the light off first. Then I sigh. Then
I turn around, face the door I just closed, pull down my
pants, and fall on the toilet— I don't sit; I fall like a
carcass, feeling my butt accommodate the rim. Then I
put my head in my hands and breathe out as I, well,
y'know, piss. I always try to enjoy it, to feel it come out
and realize that it's my body doing something it has to
do, like eating, although I'm not too good at that. I bury
my face in my hands and wish that it could go on
forever because it feels good. You do it and it's done. It
doesn't take any effort or any planning. You don't put it
off. That would be really screwed up, I think. If you had
such problems that you didn't pee. Like being anorexic, 
except with urine. If you held it in as self-punishment. I
wonder if anyone does that?
I finish up and flush, reaching behind me, my head still
down. Then I get up and turn on the light. (Did anyone
notice I was in here in the dark? Did they see the lack of
light under the crack and notice it like a roach? Did Nia
see?) Then I look in the mirror.
I look so normal. I look like I've always looked, like I
did before the fall of last year. Dark hair and dark eyes
and one snaggled tooth. Big eyebrows that meet in the
middle. A long nose, sort of twisted. Pupils that are
naturally large—it's not the pot— which blend into the
dark brown to make two big saucer eyes, holes in me.
Wisps of hair above my upper lip. This is Craig.
And I always look like I'm about to cry.
I put on the hot water and splash it at my face to feel
something. In a few seconds I'm going to have to go
back and face the crowd. But I can sit in the dark on the
toilet a little more, can't I? I always manage to make a
trip to the bathroom take five minutes.
Chapter Two
“How're you doing?” Dr. Minerva asks.
Her office has a bookshelf, like all shrinks'offices. I
used to not want to call them shrinks, but now that I've
been through so many, I feel entitled to it. It's an adult
term, and it's disrespectful, and I'm more than two
thirds adult and I'm pretty disrespectful, so what the
hell.
Like all shrinks'offices, anyway, it has The Bookshelf
full of required reading. First of all there's the DSM, the
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, which lists every
kind of psychological disorder known to man—that's
fun reading. Very thick book. I don't have a whole lot
of what's in there—I just have one big thing—but I
know all about it from skimming. There's great stuff in
there. There's a disease called Ondine's Curse, in which
your body loses the ability to breathe involuntarily. Can
you imagine? You have to think “breathe, breathe” all
the time, or you stop breathing. Most people who get it
die.
If the shrink is classy, she'll (mostly she'll, occa
sionally a he'll) have a bunch of DSMs, because they
come in different editions—III, IV, and V are the most
common. I don't think you can find a DSM II. It came 
out in 1963 or something. It takes like ten years to put
one out, and they're working on VI.
Jeez, I could be a shrink.
Now, in addition to the DSMs, there are an assortment
of specific books on psychiatric disorders, things like
The Freedom from Depression Workbook; Anxiety &
Panic Attacks: Their Cause and Cure; and The 7 Habits
of Highly Effective People. Always hardcover. No
paperbacks in a shrink's office. Usually there's at least
one book on childhood sexual abuse, like The Wounded
Heart, and one shrink I went to caught me looking at
that and said, “That book is about childhood sexual
abuse.”
And I was like, “Uh-huh?”
And she said, “It's for people who were abused.”
And I nodded.
“Were you?”
She had a little-old-lady face, this one, with a shock of
white hair, and I never saw her again. What kind of
question was that? Of course I wasn't abused. If I were,
things would be so simple. I'd have a reason for being
in shrinks'offices. I'd have a justification and
something that I could work on. The world wasn't
going to give me something that tidy.
“I'm fine. Well, I'm not fine—I'm here.”
“Is there something wrong with that?”
“Absolutely.”
“You've been coming here for a while.”
Dr. Minerva always has such amazing outfits. It's not
that she's particularly sexy or beautiful; she just carves
herself out well. Today she has a red sweater and red
lipstick that is exactly the same red. It's as if she went
to the paint store to match them up.
“I want to not have to come here.”
“Well, you're in a process. How're you doing?”
This is her prompt question. The shrinks always have
one prompt question. I've had ones that said “What's
up?” “How are we?” and even “What's happening in
the world of Craig?” They never change. It's like their
jingle.
“I didn't wake up well today.”
“Did you sleep well?”
“I slept okay.”
She looks completely stone, staring ahead. I don't know
how they do this: the psych-poker face. Psychologists
should play poker. Maybe they do. Maybe they're the 
ones who win all the money on TV. Then they have the
gall to charge my mom $120/hour. They're very greedy.
“What happened when you woke up?”
“I was having a dream. I don't know what it was, but
when I woke up, I had this awful realization that I was
awake. It hit me like a brick in the groin.”
“Like a brick in the groin, I see.”
“I didn't want to wake up. I was having a much better
time asleep. And that's really sad. It was almost like a
reverse nightmare, like when you wake up from a
nightmare you're so relieved. I woke up into a
nightmare.”
“And what is that nightmare, Craig?”
“Life.”
“Life is a nightmare.”
“Yes.”
We stop. Cosmic moment, I guess. Ooooh, is life really
a nightmare? We need to spend like ten seconds
contemplating that.
“What did you do when you realized you were awake?”
“I lay in bed.” There were more things to tell her, things
I held back: like the fact that I was hungry in bed this 
morning. I hadn't eaten the night before. I went to bed
exhausted from homework and knew as I hit the pillow
that I would pay for it in the morning, that I would
wake up really hungry, that I would cross the line where
my stomach gets so needy that I can't eat anything. I
woke up and my stomach was screaming, hollowing
itself out under my little chest. I didn't want to do
anything about it. I didn't want to eat. The idea of
eating made me hurt more. I couldn't think of
anything—not one single solitary food item—that I
would be able to handle, except coffee yogurt, and I
was sick of coffee yogurt.
I rolled over on my stomach and balled my fists and
held them against my gut like I was praying. The fists
pushed my stomach against itself and fooled it into
thinking it was full. I held this position, warm, my brain
rotating, the seconds whirring by. Only the pure urge,
the one thing that never let me down, got me out of bed
fifty minutes later.
“I got up when I had to piss.”
“I see.”
“That was great.”
“You like peeing. You've mentioned this before.”
“Yeah. It's simple.”
“You like simple.”
“Doesn't everybody?”
“Some people thrive on complexity, Craig.”
“Well, not me. As I was walking over here, I was
thinking … I have this fantasy of being a bike
messenger.”
“Ah.”
“It would be so simple, and direct, and I would get paid
for it. It would be an Anchor.”
“What about school, Craig? You have school for an
Anchor.”
“School is too all over the place. It spirals out into a
million different things.”
“Your Tentacles.”
I have to hand it to her; Dr. Minerva picked up on my
lingo pretty quickly. Tentacles is my term— the
Tentacles are the evil tasks that invade my life. Like, for
example, my American History class last week, which
necessitated me writing a paper on the weapons of the
Revolutionary War, which necessi-tated me traveling to
the Metropolitan Museum to check out some of the old
guns, which necessitated me getting in the subway,
which necessitated me being away from my cell phone 
and e-mail for 45 minutes, which meant that I didn't get
to respond to a mass mail sent out by my teacher asking
who needed extra credit, which meant other kids
snapped up the extra credit, which meant I wasn't going
to get a 98 in the class, which meant I wasn't anywhere
close to a 98.6 average (body temperature, that's what
you needed to get), which meant I wasn't going to get
into a Good College, which meant I wasn't going to
have a Good Job, which meant I wasn't going to have
health insurance, which meant I'd have to pay
tremendous amounts of money for the shrinks and
drugs my brain needed, which meant I wasn't going to
have enough money to pay for a Good Lifestyle, which
meant I'd feel ashamed, which meant I'd get depressed,
and that was the big one because I knew what that did
to me: it made it so I wouldn't get out of bed, which led
to the ultimate thing—homeless-ness. If you can't get
out of bed for long enough, people come and take your
bed away.
The opposite of the Tentacles are the Anchors. The
Anchors are things that occupy my mind and make me
feel good temporarily. Riding my bike is an Anchor.
Doing flash cards is an Anchor. Watching people play
video games at Aaron's is an Anchor. The answers are
simple and sequential. There aren't any decisions.
There aren't any Tentacles. There's just a stack of tasks
that you tackle. You don't have to deal with other
people.
“There are a lot of Tentacles,” I admit. “But I should be
able to handle them. The problem is that I'm so lazy.”
“How are you lazy, Craig?”
“I waste at least an hour every day lying in bed. Then I
waste time pacing. I waste time thinking. I waste time
being quiet and not saying anything because I'm afraid
I'll stutter.”
“Do you have a problem with stuttering?”
“When I'm depressed, it won't come out right. I'll trail
off in midsentence.”
“I see.” She writes something down on her legal pad.
Craig, this will go on your permanent record.
“I don't—” I shake my head. “The bike thing.”
“What? What were you going to say?” This is another
trick of shrinks. They never let you stop in midthought.
If you open your mouth, they want to know exactly
what you had the intention of saying. The party line is
that some of the most profound truths about us are
things that we stop saying in the middle, but I think
they do it to make us feel important. One thing's for
sure: no one else in life says to me, “Wait, Craig, what
were you going to say?”
“I was going to say that I don't think the stuttering is
like, a real problem. I just think it's one of my
symptoms.”
“Like sweating.”
“Right.” The sweating is awful. It's not as bad as the
not eating, but it's weird—cold sweat, all over my
forehead, having to be wiped off every two minutes,
smelling like skin concentrate. People notice. It's one of
the few things people notice.
“You're not stuttering now.”
“This is being paid for. I don't want to waste time.”
Pause. Now we have one of our silent battles; I look at
Dr. Minerva and she looks at me. It's a contest as to
who will crack first. She puts on her poker face; I don't
have any extra faces to put on, just the normal Craig
face.
We lock eyes. I'm waiting for her to say something
profound—I always am, even though it'll never happen.
I'm waiting for her to say “Craig, what you need to do
is X” and for the Shift to occur. I want there to be a
Shift so bad. I want to feel my brain slide back into the
slot it was meant to be in, rest there the way it did
before the fall of last year, back when I was young, and
witty, and my teachers said I had incredible promise,
and I had incredible promise, and I spoke up in class 
because I was excited and smart about the world. I want
the Shift so bad. I'm waiting for the phrase that will
invoke it. It'll be like a miracle within my life. But is
Dr. Minerva a miracle worker? No. She's a thin, tan
lady from Greece with red lipstick.
She breaks first.
“About your bike riding, you said you wanted to be a
messenger.”
“Yes.”
“You already have a bike, correct?”
“Yes.”
“And you ride it a lot?”
“Not that much. Mom won't let me ride it to school.
But I ride around Brooklyn on weekends.”
“What does it feel like when you ride your bike,
Craig?”
I pause. “. . . Geometric.”
“Geometric.”
“Yeah. Like, You have to avoid this truck. Don't get hit
in the head by these metal pipes. Make a right. The
rules are defined and you follow them.”
“Like a video game.”
“Sure. I love video games. Even just to watch. Since I
was a kid.”
“Which you often refer to as ‘back when you were
happy.'“
“Right.” I smooth my shirt out. I get dressed up for
these little meetings too. Good khakis and a white dress
shirt. We're dressing up for each other. We should
really go get some coffee and make a scandal—the
Greek therapist and her high school boyfriend. We
could be famous. That would get me money. That might
make me happy.
“Do you remember some of the things that made you
happy?”
“The video games.” I laugh.
“What's funny?”
“1 was walking down my block the other day, and
behind me was a mother with her kid, and the mother
was saying, ‘Now, Timmy, I don't want you to
complain about it. You can't play video games twentyfour hours a day.'And Timmy goes, ‘But I want
to!'And I turned around and told him, ‘Me too.'”
“You want to play video games twenty-four hours a
day?”
“Or watch. I just want to not be me. Whether it's
sleeping or playing video games or riding my bike or
studying. Giving my brain up. That's what's
important.”
“You're very clear about what you want.”
“Yeah.”
“What did you want when you were a kid? Back when
you were happy? What did you want to be when you
grew up?”
Dr. Minerva is a good shrink, I think. That isn't the
answer. But it is a damn good question. What did I want
to be when I grew up?
Chapter Three
When I was four, this is how things were:
Our family lived in a crappy apartment in Manhattan. I
didn't know it was crappy at the time, because I didn't
have our better apartment to compare it to yet. But there
was exposed piping. That's no good. You don't want to
raise your child in a house with exposed piping. I
remember there was a green pipe and a red pipe and a
white pipe, gathered near the corner of the hallway just
before the bathroom, and as soon as I could walk I
investigated them all, walked up to them and put my
palm about two millimeters away from each one to test
if it was hot or cold. One was cold, one was hot, and the
red one was really hot. Two millimeters wasn't enough.
I burned myself on it and Dad, who hadn't realized ("It
must only get hot in the afternoon"), encased it in dark
gray foam with duct tape, but duct tape never stopped
me and I thought the foam was fun to pick at and chew
so I picked it off and chewed it and then when other
kids came over to my house I dared them to touch the
re-exposed pipe; I told them anyone who came in had to
touch it, otherwise they were a pussy, which was a word
I learned from Dad watching TV, which I thought was
great because it was a word with two meanings: the cat
that girls liked and the thing you called people to make
them do stuff. Just like chicken had two meanings: the
bird that walked around and the white stuff you ate. 
Some people touched the hot pipe if you called them
chicken as well.
I had my own room but I didn't like to be alone in it;
the only room I liked to be in was the living room,
under the table that held all the encyclopedias. I made it
my little fort; I put a blanket over me and worked in
there, with a light that Dad rigged up. I worked on
maps. I loved maps. I knew that we lived in Manhattan
and I had a map of it, a Hagstrom Five Borough Atlas
with all the streets laid out. I knew exactly where we
lived, on the comer of 53rd Street and 3rd Avenue.
Third Avenue was a yellow street because it was an
avenue, big and long and important. Fifty-third Street
was a little white street that went across Manhattan. The
streets went sideways and the avenues went up-anddown; that was all you had to remember. (Dad helped
me remember, too, when we went out for pancakes. He
would ask, “Do you want them cut in streets and
avenues, Craig?” And I'd go “Yes!” and he'd cut the
stack of pancakes in a grid, and we'd name each street
and avenue as we went along, making sure to get 3rd
Ave. and 53rd Street.) It was so simple. If you were
really advanced (like I was, duh), you knew that traffic
on the even streets went east (East for Even) and the
odd streets went west (West is Odd). Then, every bunch
of streets, there were fat yellow streets, like the
avenues, that went both ways. These were the famous
streets: 42nd St., 34th St. The complete list from the 
bottom up was Chambers St., Canal St., Houston St.,
14th St., 23rd St., 34th St., 42nd St., 57th St., 72nd St.
(there wasn't any big street in the 60s; they got shafted),
79th St., 86th St., 96th St., and then you were in
Harlem, where Manhattan effectively ended for little
white boys who made forts under encyclopedias and
studied maps.
As soon as I saw the Manhattan map, I wanted to draw
it. I should be able to draw the place where I lived. So I
asked Mom for tracing paper and she got it for me and I
brought it into my fort and I pointed the light right
down on the first map in the Hagstrom Atlas—
downtown, where Wall Street was and the stock market
worked. The streets were crazy down there; they didn't
have any kind of streets and avenues; they just had
names and they looked like a game of Pick-Up Sticks.
But before I could even worry about the streets, I had to
get the land right. Manhattan was actually built on land.
Sometimes when they were digging up the streets you
saw it down there—real dirt! And the land had a certain
curve to it at the bottom of the island, like a dinosaur
head, bumpy on the right and straight on the left, a
swooping majestic bottom.
I held my tracing paper down and tried to trace the line
of lower Manhattan.
I couldn't do it.
I mean, it was ridiculous. My line didn't have anything
to do with the real one. I didn't understand—I was
holding the tracing paper steady. I looked at my small
hand. “Stay still,” I told it. I crumpled up the paper and
tried again.
The line wasn't right again. It didn't have the swoop.
I crumpled up the paper and tried again.
This line was even worse than before. Manhattan
looked square.
I tried again.
Oh boy, now it looked like a duck.
Crumple.
Now it looked like a turd, another word I picked up
from Dad.
Crumple.
Now it looked like a piece of fruit.
It looked like everything but what it was supposed to
look like: Manhattan. I couldn't do it. I didn't realize
then that when you trace stuff you're supposed to have
a tracing table, lighted from below, and clamps to hold
the paper straight, not a trembling four-year-old hand,
so I just thought I was a failure. They always said on
TV you could do anything you wanted, but here I was 
trying to do something and it wasn't working. I would
never be able to do it. I crumpled up the last piece of
tracing paper and started sobbing, my head in my hands
in my fort.
Mom heard me.
“Craig?”
“What? Go away.”
“What's wrong, honey?”
“Don't open the curtain! Don't open it! I have things in
here.”
“Why are you crying? What's the matter?”
“I can't do it.”
“What's the matter?”
“Nothing!”
“Tell Mommy, c'mon. I'm going to open the blanket—
”
“No!”
I jumped at her face as she pulled the blanket aside,
bringing it taut under the encyclopedias. Mom threw
her hands up and held the books in place, saving both of
us from getting clobbered. (A week later, she'd have
Dad move the encyclopedias.) With her occupied, I ran 
across the room, streaking tears, wanting to get to the
bathroom, to sit down on the toilet with the light off and
splash hot water on my face. But Mom was too quick.
She shoved the encyclopedias back and loped across the
room, swooping me up in her thin arms with the elbow
skin that you could pull down. I beat my palms against
her.
“Craig! We do not hit Mommy!”
“I can't do it I can't do it I can't do it!” I hit her.
“What?” She hugged me tight so I had no room to hit.
“What can't you do?”
“I can't draw Manhattan! “
“Huh?” Mom drew her face up and away from me,
looked me in the eyes. “Is that what you were trying to
do down there?”
I nodded, sniffled.
“You were trying to trace Manhattan with the tracing
paper I bought you?”
“I can't do it.”
“Craig, no one can.” She laughed. “You can't just trace
freehand. It's impossible!”
“Then how do they make the maps?”
Mom paused.
“See? See? Someone can do it!”
“They have equipment, Craig. They're grown-ups and
they have special tools that they use.”
“Well I need those tools.”
“Craig.”
“Let's buy them.”
“Honey.”
“Do they cost a lot of money?”
“Honey.”
Mom put me down on the sofa, which turned into a bed
for her and Dad at night, and sat next to me. I wasn't
crying anymore. I wasn't hitting anymore. My brain
was all right back then; it didn't get stuck in ruts.
“Craig,” she sighed, looked at me. “I have an idea.
Instead of spending your time trying to trace maps of
Manhattan, why don't you make your own maps of
imaginary places?”
And that was the closest I've ever come to an epiphany.
I could make up my own city. I could use my own
streets. I could put a river where I wanted. I could put
the ocean where I wanted. I could put the bridges where 
I wanted and I could put a big highway right across the
middle of town, like Manhattan should have but didn't.
I could make my own sub- way system. I could make
my own street names. I could have my own grid
stretching off to the edges of the map. I smiled and
hugged Mom.
She got me some thick paper—white construction
paper. Later on I grew to prefer straight com-puter
paper. I went back under my fort and turned the light on
and started on my first map. And I did that for the next
five years—whenever I was in class, I didn't doodle, I
drew maps. Hundreds of them. When I finished, I
crumpled them; it was making them that was important.
I did cities on the ocean, cities with two rivers meeting
in the middle, cities with one big river that bent, cities
with bridges, crazy interchanges, circles and
boulevards. I made cities. That made me happy. That
was my Anchor. And until I turned nine and turned to
video games, that was what I wanted to be when I grew
up: a mapmaker.
Chapter Four
“I wanted to make maps,” I tell Dr. Minerva.
“Maps of what?”
“Cities.”
“On the computer?”
“No, by hand.”
“I see.”
“I don't think there's much of a market for that.” I
smile.
“Maybe not, maybe so.”
What a shrink answer.
“I can't take maybes. I have to make money.”
“We're going to talk more about money next time. We
have to stop now.”
I look at the clock. 7:03. She always gives an extra
three minutes.
“What are you going to do when you leave, Craig?”
She always asks that. What am I always going to do?
I'm going to go home and freak out. I'm going to sit 
with my family and try not to talk about myself and
what's wrong. I'm going to try and eat. Then I'm going
to try and sleep. I dread it. I can't eat and I can't sleep.
I'm not doing well in terms of being a functional
human, you know?
Hey, soldier, what's the matter?
I can't sleep and I can't eat, sir!
How about I pump you full of lead, soldier, would that
get you motivated?
Can't say, sir! I'd probably still be unable to sleep or
eat, just a little bit heavier from the lead.
Get up there and fight, soldier! The enemy is there!
The enemy is too strong. I can't fight them. They're too
smart.
You're smart too, soldier.
Not smart enough.
So you're just going to give up?
That's the plan.
“I'm going to just keep at it,” I tell Dr. Minerva. “That's
all I can do. I'll keep at it and hope it gets better.”
“Are you taking your medicine?”
“Yes.”
“Are you seeing Dr. Barney?”
Dr. Barney is the psychopharmacologist. He's the one
who prescribes me meds and sends me to peo-pie like
Dr. Minerva. He's a trip in his own way, a little fat
Santa with rings embedded in his fingers.
“Yes, later in the week.”
“You know to do what he says.”
Yes, Doctor. I'll do what you say. I'll do what you all
say.
“Here,” I hand Dr. Minerva the check from my mom.
Chapter Five
My family shouldn't have to put up with me. They're
good people, solid, happy. Sometimes when I'm with
them I think I'm on television.
We live in an apartment—a much better one than the
Manhattan one, but still not good enough, not
something to be proud of—in Brooklyn. Brooklyn is a
big fat blob with its own ugly shape across from
Manhattan; it looks like Jabba the Hutt counting his
money. Its bridges connect to Manhattan and it's split
up by canals and creeks—filthy green streaks of water
that remind you that it used to be a swamp. There are
brownstones—limestone and maroon houses that stand
like fence posts and always have Indian men
refurbishing them—and everybody goes crazy for
those, pays millions of dollars to live in them. But other
than that, it's a pretty statusless place. It's a shame we
moved out of Manhattan, where all the real people with
power live.
The walk from Dr. Minerva's office to our apartment is
a short one, but loaded with mocking stores. Food
stores. The absolute worst part of being depressed is the
food. A person's relationship with food is one of their
most important relationships. I don't think your
relationship with your parents is that important. Some 
people never know their parents. I don't think your
relationships with your friends are important. But your
relationship with air—that's key. You can't break up
with air. You're kind of stuck together. Only slightly
less crucial is water. And then food. You can't be
dropping food to hang with someone else. You need to
strike up an agreement with it.
I never liked eating the traditional American things:
pork chops, steak, rack of lamb … I still don't. Never
mind vegetables. I used to like the foods that come in
abstract shapes: chicken nuggets, Fruit Roll-Ups, hot
dogs. I liked junk food. I could demolish a bag of Cheez
Doodles; I'd have Doodle Cheez so far infused into my
fingertips, I'd be tasting it on myself for a day. And so I
had a good thing going with food. I thought about it the
way everyone else did; when you're hungry, you have
some.
Then last fall happened, and I stopped eating.
Now I get mocked by these groceries, pizza places, icecream stores, delis, Chinese places, bakeries, sushi
joints, McDonald'ses. They sit out in the street, pushing
what I can't enjoy. My stomach shrank or something; it
doesn't take in much, and if I force in a certain amount
it rejects everything, sends me to the bathroom to vomit
in the dark. It's like a gnawing, the tug of a rope
wrapped around the end of my esophagus. There's a
man down there and he wants food, but the only way he 
knows to ask for it is to tug on the rope, and when he
does, it closes up the entrance so I can't put anything in.
If he would just relax, let the rope go, I'd be able to
give him all the food he wanted. But he's down there
making me dizzy and tired, giving extra tugs as I pass
restaurants that smell like fat and grease.
When I do eat, it's one of two experiences: a Battle or a
Slaughter. When I'm bad—when the Cycling is going
on in my brain—it's a Battle. Every bite hurts. My
stomach wants no part of it. Everything is forced. The
food wants to stay on the plate, and once it's inside me,
it wants to get back on the plate. People give me strange
looks: What's wrong, Craig, why aren't you eating?
But then there are moments when it comes together.
The Shift hasn't happened yet, maybe it never will, but
sometimes—just enough times to give me hope—my
brain jars back into where it's supposed to be. When I
feel one of these (I call them the Fake Shifts) I should
always eat, although I don't; I sometimes stubbornly,
foolishly try to hold the feeling and get things done
while my mind can operate, and neglect to eat, and then
I'm back where I started. But oh, when I slip back into
being okay when I'm around food, watch out. It's all
going in. Eggs and hamburgers and fries and ice cream
and marmalade and Fruity Pebbles and cookies and
broccoli, even—and noodles and sauce. Screw you; I'm
going to eat all of you. I'm Craig Gilner, and I will 
make myself strong from you. I don't know when my
body chemistry is going to line up to let me eat again,
so you are all getting in me right now.
And that feels so good. I eat it all, and the man is away
from his rope. He's busy down there eating everything
that falls inside, running around like a chicken with its
head cut off, the head on the floor, munching food of its
own. All my cells take the food in and they love it and
they love my brain for it and I smile and I am full; I am
full and functional and I can do anything, and once I
eat—this is the amazing part—once I eat I sleep, I sleep
like I should, like a hunter who just brought home a kill.
. . but then I wake up and the man is back, my stomach
is tight, and I don't know what it was that got me to
have a Slaughter eating experience. It's not pot. It's not
girls. It's not my family. I've started to think it must
just be chemistry, in which case we're looking for the
Shift and we haven't found it yet.
Chapter Six
Night is here except for a thin gray at the edge of the
sky and the trees are thick with rain and the drizzle is
pissing on me as I come up to my house. No sunsets in
spring. I lean in and ring the buzzer, streaked bronze
from years of use—the most used buzzer in the
building.
“Craig?”
“Hi, Mom.”
Bzzzzzzzzt. It growls deeply, amplified by the lobby.
(Lobby. Mailroom, more like, just a compartment for
mailboxes.) I throw open one door and then the other.
It's warm in the house, and it smells like cooked starch.
The dogs greet me.
“Hi, Rudy. Hi, Jordan.” They're little dogs. My sister
named them; she's nine. Rudy is a mutt; my father says
he's a cross between a chihuahua and a German
shepherd, which must've been some wild dog sex. I
hope the German shepherd was the guy. Otherwise the
German shepherd girl probably wasn't too satisfied.
Rudy has a pronounced under-bite; he looks like two
dogs where one is eating the other's head from below,
but when I take him for a walk, girls love him and talk 
to me. Then they realize that I'm young and/or messed
up, and they move on.
Jordan, a Tibetan spaniel, looks like a small, brown
lion. He's small and cute but completely crazy. His
breed was devised in Tibet for the purpose of guarding
monasteries. When he came into our home, he
immediately fixated on the house as a monastery, the
bathroom as the most sacred monastic cell, and my
mom as the Abbess. You can't go near my mother
without Jordan protecting her. When she's in the
bathroom in the morning, Jordan has to be in there with
her, placed up on the counter by the sink as she brushes
her teeth.
Jordan barks at me. Since I started losing it, he started
barking at me. It's not something any of us mention.
“Craig, how was Dr. Minerva?” Mom comes out of the
kitchen. She's still tall and skinny, looking better each
year. I know that's weird to think, but what the hell—
she's just a woman who happens to be my mom. It's
amazing how she looks more stately and confident as
she gets older. I've seen pictures of her in college and
she didn't look like much. Dad is looking like he made
a better decision every year.
“It . . . was okay.” I hug her. She's taken such good care
of me since I got bad; I owe her everything and I love
her and I tell her these days, although every time I say 
it, it gets a little diluted. I think you run out of I love
yous.
“Are you still happy with her?”
“Yeah.”
“Because if you're not we'll get you someone else.”
You can't afford to get anyone else, I think, looking at
the crack in the wall next to my mom. This crack in our
front hallway has been there for three or four years. Dad
paints over it and it just recracks. We've tried putting a
mirror over it but it's a strange place to put a mirror—
on one side of a hallway— and my sister started calling
it the Vampire Mirror to tell if people who came into
the house were vampires, and it came down after a few
weeks, when I came home stoned and stumbled into it.
Now there's an exposed crack again. It's never going to
get fixed.
“You don't need to get anyone else.”
“How's your eating? Are you hungry?”
Yes, I think. I am going to eat the food my mom made
me. I'm still in control of my mind and I have
medication and I am going to make this happen.
“Yes.”
“Good! To the kitchen!”
I go in, and the place is all set for me. Dad and my
sister, Sarah, are sitting at the circular table, knives and
forks in hand, posing for me.
“How do we look?” Dad asks, banging his silverware
on the table. “Do we look hungry?”
My parents are always looking into new ways to fix me.
They've tried acupuncture, yoga, cognitive therapy,
relaxation tapes, various kinds of forced exercise (until
I found my bike), self-help books, Tae Bo, and feng
shui in my room. They've spent a lot of money on me.
I'm ashamed.
“Eat! Eat! Eat!” Sarah says. “We were waiting for you.”
“Is this necessary?” I ask.
“We're just making things more homey for you.” Mom
brings a baking pan over to the table. It smells hot and
juicy. Inside the pan are big orange things cut in half.
“We have squash"—she turns back to the stove—"rice,
and chicken.” She brings over a pot of white rice with
vegetable bits sprinkled over it and a plate of chicken
patties. I go for them—a star-shaped one, a dinosaurshaped one. Sarah grabs at the dinosaur-shaped one at
the same time.
“The dinosaurs are mine!”
“Okay.” I let her. She kicks me under the table.
“How're you feeling?” she whispers.
“Not good.”
She nods. Sarah knows what this means. It means she'll
see me on the couch tonight, tossing and turning and
sweating as Mom brings me warm milk. It means she'll
see me watching TV, but not really watching, just
staring and not laughing, as I don't do my homework. It
means she'll see me sinking and failing. She reacts well
to this. She does more schoolwork and has more fun.
She doesn't want to end up like me. At least I'm giving
someone an example not to follow.
“I'm sorry. They're trying to do a big thing for you.”
“I can tell.”
“So, Craig, how was school today?” Dad asks. He forks
into the squash and looks at me through his glasses.
He's short and wears glasses, but like he says, at least
he has hair—thick, dark stuff that he passed on to me.
He tells me I'm blessed; the genes are good on both
sides, and if I think I'm depressed now, imagine if I
knew I was going to lose my hair like everyone else!
Ha.
“All right,” I say.
“What'd you do?”
“Sat in class and followed instructions.”
We clink at our food. I take my first bite—a carefully
constructed forkful of chicken, rice, and squash—and
mash it into my mouth. I will eat this, I chew it and feel
that it tastes good and rear my tongue back and send it
down. I hold it. All right. It's in there.
“What did you do in . . . let's see . . . American
History?”
“That one wasn't so good. The teacher called on me and
I couldn't talk.”
“Oh, Craig .. .” Mom is like.
I start constructing another bite.
“What do you mean you couldn't talk?” Dad asks.
“I knew the answer, but… I just. . .”
“You trailed off,” Mom says.
I nod as I take in the next bite.
“Craig, you can't keep doing that.”
“Honey—” Mom tells him.
“When you know the answer to something, you have to
speak up for yourself; how can that not be clear?”
Dad takes in a heaping forkful of squash and chews it
like a furnace.
“Don't jump on him,” Mom says.
“I'm not, I'm being friendly.” Dad smiles. “Craig, you
are blessed with a good mind. You just have to have
confidence in it and talk when people call on you. Like
you used to do. Back when they had to tell you to stop
talking.”
“It's different now . . .” Third bite.
“We know. Your mother and I know and we're doing
everything we can to help you. Right?” He looks across
the table at Mom.
“Yes.”
“Me too,” Sarah says. “I'm doing everything I can,
too.”
“That's right.” Mom reaches across to ruffle her hair.
“You're doing great.”
“Yesterday, I could've smoked pot, but didn't,” I say,
looking up, curled over my plate.
“Craig!” Dad snaps.
“Let's not talk about this,” Mom says.
“But you should know; it's important. I'm doing
experiments with my mind, to see how it got the way it
is.”
“What are you talking about?”
“Not around your sister,” Mom says. “I want to tell you
some news about Jordan.” Hearing his name, the dog
walks into the kitchen, takes up his position by Mom. “I
took him to the vet today.”
“So you didn't go to work?”
“Right.”
“And that's why you cooked.”
“Exactly.”
I'm jealous of her. Can you be jealous of your mom for
being able to handle things? I couldn't take a day off,
take a dog to the vet, and cook dinner. That's like three
times too much stuff for me to get done in one day.
How am I ever going to have my own house?
“So you want to know what happened at the vet?”
“It's crazy,” Sarah says.
“We took him in for the seizures he's been having,”
Mom says. “And you'll never believe what the vet
said.”
“What?”
“They took some blood tests last time, and the results
came back—I was sitting in the little room with Jordan;
he was being very good. The vet comes in and looks at
the papers and says, ‘These numbers are not compatible
with life.'“
I laugh. There's a bite on my fork in front of me. It
shakes. “What do you mean?”
“That's what I asked him. And it turns out that a dog's
blood-sugar level is supposed to be between forty and
one hundred. You know what Jordan's is?”
“What?”
“Nine.”
“Ruff!” Jordan barks.
“Then"—Mom is laughing now—"there's some sort of
other number, some enzyme ratio level, that's supposed
to be between ten and thirty, and Jordan's is one
eighty!”
“Good dog,” Dad says.
“The vet didn't know what to make of it. He told me to
keep giving him the supplements and the vitamins, but
that basically he's a medical miracle.”
I look over at Jordan, the Tibetan spaniel. Pushed-in
shaggy face, black nose, big dark eyes like mine.
Panting and drooling. Resting on his furry front legs.
“He shouldn't be alive, but he is,” Mom says.
I look at Jordan more. Why are you bothering? You've
got an excuse. You've got bad blood. You must like
living; I guess I would if I were you. Going from meal
to meal and guarding Mom. It's a life. It doesn't
involve tests or homework. You don't have to buy
things.
“Craig?”
You shouldn't be able to be alive and you are. You
want to trade?
“I… I guess it's cool.”
“It's very cool,” Mom says. “It's by God's grace that
this dog lives.”
Oh, right, God. Forgot about him. He's definitely,
according to Mom, going to have a role in me getting
better. But I find God to be an ineffectual shrink. He
adopts the “do nothing” method of therapy. You tell
him your problems and he, ah, does nothing.
“I'm done,” Sarah says. She picks up her plate and trots
out of the room, calling to Jordan. He follows.
“I can't eat any more either,” I say. I've managed five
bites. My stomach is churning and closing fast. It's all
such inoffensive food; I shouldn't have any problems
with it. I should be able to eat three plates of it. I'm a
growing boy; I shouldn't have trouble sleeping; I
should be playing sports! I should be making out with
girls. I should be finding what I love about this world. I
should be frickin'eating and sleeping and drinking and
studying and watching TV and being normal.
“Try a little more, Craig,” Mom says. “No pressure, but
you should eat.”
That's right. I'm going to eat. I slice off the top of the
squash, in streets and avenues, a big chunk, and put it
on my fork and get it in my mouth. I'm going to eat
you. I chew it, soft and yielding, easily molded into a
shape that fits down my throat. It tastes sweet. Now
hold it. It's in my stomach. I'm sweating. The sweating
gets worse around my parents. My stomach has it. My
stomach is full of six bites of this meal. I can take six
bites. I won't lose it. I won't lose this meal that my
mom has made. If the dog can live, I can eat. I hold it. I
make a fist. I tense my muscles.
“Are you okay?”
“One second,” I say.
I lose.
My stomach hitches as I leave the table.
What were you trying to do, soldier?
I was trying to eat, sir!
And what happened?
I got caught thinking about some crap, sir!
What kind of crap?
How I want to live less than my parents'dog.
Are you still concentrated on the enemy, soldier?
I don't think so.
Do you even know who the enemy is?
I think… it's me.
That's right.
I have to concentrate on myself.
Yes. But not right now, because now you're going to
the bathroom to throw up! It's tough to fight when
you're throwing up!
I stumble into the bathroom, turn off the light, close the
door. The horrible thing is that I like this part, because
when it's over I know I'll be warm; I'll have the
warmth in me of a body having just been through a
trauma. I bear down on the toilet in the dark—I know 
just where to go—and my stomach hitches again and
slams up at me, and I open up and groan. It comes out,
and I hear my mother outside, sniffling, and my dad
muttering, probably holding her. I grip the handle and
flush a few times, alternating filling the toilet and
flushing it. When I'm done I'll go to sleep, and I won't
do any homework; I'm not up to it tonight.
And I think as I'm down there:
The Shift is coming. The Shift has to be coming.
Because if you keep on living like this you'll die.
Chapter Seven
So why am I depressed? That's the million-dollar
question, baby, the Tootsie Roll question; not even the
owl knows the answer to that one. I don't know either.
All I know is the chronology.
Two years ago I got into one of the best high schools in
Manhattan: Executive Pre-Professional High School.
It's a new school set up to create the leaders of
tomorrow; corporate internships are mandatory; the
higher-ups of Merrill Lynch come and speak to classes
and distribute travel mugs and stuff. This billionaire
philanthropist named Bernard Lutz set it up in
conjunction with the public school system, like a school
within a school—all you have to do to get in is pass a
test. Then your whole high school is paid for and you
have access to 800 of the smartest, most interesting
students in the world— not to mention the teachers and
visiting dignitaries. You can come out of Executive PreProfessional High School and go right to Wall Street,
although that's not what you should do; what you
should do is come out and go to Harvard and then law
school. That's how you end up being, like, President.
I'll admit it: I kind of want to be President.
So this test—they named it the Bernard Lutz
Philanthropic Exam, in honor of his philanthropicness—became fairly important in my life. It became
more important than, uh, food, for instance. I bought the
book for it—Bernard Lutz puts out his own line of testprep books for his own test—and started studying three
hours a day.
I was in seventh grade, and I got comfortable with my
room for the first time—I'd come home with my heavy 
backpack and toss it on the bed and watch it bounce
toward the pillows as I sat down in my chair and pulled
out my test-prep book. On my cell phone, I would go to
TOOLS: ALARM and set myself up for a two-hour
practice exam. There were five practice exams in the
book, and after I did them all, I was thrilled to discover
an ad at the back for twelve more Bernard Lutz testprep books. I went to Barnes & Noble; they didn't have
all of them in stock—they'd never had anyone ask for
all of them—so they had to put in an order for me. But
then it was game on. I started taking a practice exam
every day. The questions covered the standard junk that
they test you on to determine if you're not an idiot:
Reading comprehension. Ooh. Can you read this
selection and tell what kind of tree they're trying to
save?
Vocabulary. Did you buy a book full of weird words
and learn them?
Math. Are you able to turn off your mind to the world
and fill it with symbols that follow rules?
I made that test my bitch. I mauled the practice exams
and slept with the books under my pillow and turned
my brain into a fierce machine, a buzz saw that could
handle anything. I could feel myself getting smarter,
under the light at my desk. I could feel me filling
myself.
Now, I stopped hanging out with a lot of friends when I
got into Executive Pre-Professional mode. I didn't have
many friends to begin with—I had the kids who I sat
with during lunch, the bare minimum—but once I
started carrying flash cards around they sort of avoided
me. I don't know what their problem was; I just wanted
to maximize my time. When all of my test-prep books
were done, I got a personal tutor to shore me up for the
exam. She told me halfway through the sessions that I
didn't need her, but kept my mom's $700.
I got an 800 on the test, out of 800.
The day I got those test results, a cold, plaintive, latefall New York day, was my last good day. I've had
good moments scattered since then, times when I
thought I was better, but that was the last day I felt
triumphant. The letter from Executive Pre-Professional
High School came in the mail, and Mom had saved it
on the kitchen table for me when I got home from Tae
Bo class after school, which was something I intended
to keep doing in high school, to have on my
extracurricular activity sheet when I applied for college,
which would be the next hurdle, the next step.
“Craig, guess what's here?”
I threw down my backpack and ran past the Vampire
Mirror to the kitchen. There it was: a manila envelope. 
The good kind of envelope. If you failed the test, you
got a small envelope; if you got in, you got a big one.
“Yeesssss!” I screamed. I tore it open. I took out the
purple-and-gold welcome packet and held it up like the
holy grail. I could have used it to start my own religion.
I could have made, y'know, love to it. I kissed it and
hugged it until Mom said, “Craig, stop that. That's very
sick. How about you call your friends?”
She didn't know, because I never told her, that my
friends were a bit estranged. They're sort of ancillary
anyway, friends. I mean, they're important—
everybody knows that; the TV tells you so—but they
come and go. You lose one friend, you pick up another.
All you have to do is talk to people, and this was back
when I could talk to anybody. My friends, when I had
them, pretty much just ragged on me and took my seat
when I left the room anyway. Why did I need to call
them up?
Except Aaron. Aaron was a real friend; I guess I'd call
him my best friend. He was one of the oldest guys in
my class, born on that cusp where you can be the
youngest person in an older class or the oldest in a
younger class, and his parents did the right thing and
went with the latter. He was smart and fearless, with a
flop of brown curly hair and the sort of glasses that
made girls like him, square black ones. He had freckles
and he talked a lot. When we got together we would 
start projects: an alarm clock torn apart and distributed
over a wall, a stop-motion video of Lego people having
sex, a Web site for pictures of toilets.
I had met him by wandering over to the table during
lunch with my head buried in flash cards, sitting down,
having one of his friends ask me what I was doing
there, and having him come by, flush with tacos, to
rescue me, ask what I was studying. It turned out that he
and I were taking the same exam, but he wasn't
studying at all—didn't believe in it. He introduced me
to the table conversation about what Princess Zelda
would be like in bed—I said she'd be terrible, because
she'd been locked up in dungeons since puberty, but
Aaron said that'd make her super hot.
Aaron called me that Friday night.
“Want to come over and watch movies?”
“Sure.” I was done with my practice test for the day.
Aaron lived in a small apartment in a big building in
downtown Manhattan by City Hall. I took the subway
in (my mom had to okay it with Aaron's mom, which
was horrifying), identified myself to Aaron's paunchy
doorman, and took the elevator up to his floor. Aaron's
mom greeted me and brought me into his ventilated
chamber (past his dad, who wrote in a room that
resembled a prison cell, occasionally beating his head
against his desk, while Aaron's mom brought him tea) 
and flopped on his bed, which wasn't yet covered with
the sort of stains that would define it in the future. I'm
good at flopping on things.
“Hey,” Aaron was like. “You want to smoke some
pot?”
Oh. So this was what watching movies meant. Quick
recap of what I knew about drugs: my mom told me
never to do them; my dad told me not to do them until
after the SATs. Mom trumped Dad, so I vowed to never
do them—but what if someone made me? I thought
drugs might be something people did to you, like
jabbing you with a needle while you were trying to
mind your business.
“What if someone makes me, Mom?” I had asked her;
we were having the drug conversation in a playground.
I was ten. “What if they hold a gun to my head and
force me to take the drugs?”
“That's not really how it works, honey,” she answered.
“People take drugs because they want to. You just have
to not want to.”
And now here I was with Aaron, wanting to. His room
smelled like certain areas of Central Park, down by the
lake, where white guys with dreadlocks played bongos.
My mom hovered in my head.
“Nah,” I was like.
“No problem.” He opened a pungent bag and put a
chunk of the contents of the bag in a very fascinating
little device that looked like a cigarette but was made of
metal. He lit it up with a butane lighter that made a
flame approximately as large as my middle finger. He
puffed right up against his wall.
“Don't you have to open a window?”
“Nah, it's my room; I can do what I want.”
“Doesn't your mom care?”
“She has her hands full with Dad.”
The section of wall he smoked against would get
discolored over the next two years. Eventually, like the
rest of the room, it would get covered up with posters of
rappers with gold teeth.
Aaron took three or four breaths of his metal cigarette
and made the room smell musty and hot, then
announced:
“Let's motivate, son! What do you want to get?”
“Action.” Duh. I was in seventh grade.
“All right! You know what I want?” Aaron's eyes lit
up. “I want a movie with a cliff.”
“A mountain-climbing one?”
“Doesn't have to be about mountain climbing. Just
needs at least one scene where some dudes are fighting
and somebody gets thrown off a cliff.”
“Did you hear about Paul Stojanovich?”
“Who's that?”
“He's the producer who invented World's Scariest
Police Chases and Cops.”
pretty much just ragged on me and took my seat when I
left the room anyway. Why did I need to call them up?
Except Aaron. Aaron was a real friend; I guess I'd call
him my best friend. He was one of the oldest guys in
my class, born on that cusp where you can be the
youngest person in an older class or the oldest in a
younger class, and his parents did the right thing and
went with the latter. He was smart and fearless, with a
flop of brown curly hair and the sort of glasses that
made girls like him, square black ones. He had freckles
and he talked a lot. When we got together we would
start projects: an alarm clock torn apart and distributed
over a wall, a stop-motion video of Lego people having
sex, a Web site for pictures of toilets.
I had met him by wandering over to the table during
lunch with my head buried in flash cards, sitting down, 
having one of his friends ask me what I was doing
there, and having him come by, flush with tacos, to
rescue me, ask what I was studying. It turned out that he
and I were taking the same exam, but he wasn't
studying at all—didn't believe in it. He introduced me
to the table conversation about what Princess Zelda
would be like in bed—I said she'd be terrible, because
she'd been locked up in dungeons since puberty, but
Aaron said that'd make her super hot.
Aaron called me that Friday night.
“Want to come over and watch movies?”
“Sure.” I was done with my practice test for the day.
Aaron lived in a small apartment in a big building in
downtown Manhattan by City Hall. I took the subway
in (my mom had to okay it with Aaron's mom, which
was horrifying), identified myself to Aaron's paunchy
doorman, and took the elevator up to his floor. Aaron's
mom greeted me and brought me into his ventilated
chamber (past his dad, who wrote in a room that
resembled a prison cell, occasionally beating his head
against his desk, while Aaron's mom brought him tea)
and flopped on his bed, which wasn't yet covered with
the sort of stains that would define it in the future. I'm
good at flopping on things.
“Hey,” Aaron was like. “You want to smoke some
pot?”
Oh. So this was what watching movies meant. Quick
recap of what I knew about drugs: my mom told me
never to do them; my dad told me not to do them until
after the SATs. Mom trumped Dad, so I vowed to never
do them—but what if someone made me? I thought
drugs might be something people did to you, like
jabbing you with a needle while you were trying to
mind your business.
“What if someone makes me, Mom?” I had asked her;
we were having the drug conversation in a playground.
I was ten. “What if they hold a gun to my head and
force me to take the drugs?”
“That's not really how it works, honey,” she answered.
“People take drugs because they want to. You just have
to not want to.”
And now here I was with Aaron, wanting to. His room
smelled like certain areas of Central Park, down by the
lake, where white guys with dreadlocks played bongos.
My mom hovered in my head.
“Nah,” I was like.
“No problem.” He opened a pungent bag and put a
chunk of the contents of the bag in a very fascinating
little device that looked like a cigarette but was made of
metal. He lit it up with a butane lighter that made a 
flame approximately as large as my middle finger. He
puffed right up against his wall.
“Don't you have to open a window?”
“Nah, it's my room; I can do what I want.”
“Doesn't your mom care?”
“She has her hands full with Dad.”
The section of wall he smoked against would get
discolored over the next two years. Eventually, like the
rest of the room, it would get covered up with posters of
rappers with gold teeth.
Aaron took three or four breaths of his metal cigarette
and made the room smell musty and hot, then
announced:
“Let's motivate, son! What do you want to get?”
“Action.” Duh. I was in seventh grade.
“All right! You know what I want?” Aaron's eyes lit
up. “I want a movie with a cliff.”
“A mountain-climbing one?”
“Doesn't have to be about mountain climbing. Just
needs at least one scene where some dudes are fighting
and somebody gets thrown off a cliff.”
“Did you hear about Paul Stojanovich?”
“Who's that?”
“He's the producer who invented World's Scariest
Police Chases and Cops.”
“No kidding? The host?”
“No, the producer. The host kicks ass, though.”
Aaron led the way out of his room and past his father—
typing away, wiping sweat, for all intents and purposes
a part of the computer—to his front door, where his
mom, who had long dirty-blond hair and wore overalls,
stopped us and gave us cookies and our coats.
“I love my life,” Aaron said. “Bye, Mom.” We entered
the elevator with our mouths full of cookies.
“Okay, so what were you saying? I love World's
Scariest Police Chases.” Aaron swallowed. “I love it
when the guy is like"—Aaron put on a stern overannunciated brogue—"These two-bit bandits thought
they could turn a blind eye to the law, but the Broward
County Sherrif's office showed them the light—and it
led them straight to jail.'”
I cracked up, spitting cookie bits everywhere.
“I'm good at voices. You want to hear Jay Leno
blowing the devil? I got it from this comedian Bill
Hicks.”
“You never let me finish about Paul Stojanovich!” I
said.
“Who?”
The elevator arrived in Aaron's lobby. “The pro ducer
of World's Scariest Police Chases.”
“Oh, right.” Aaron threw open the glass lobby door. I
followed him into the street, tossed up my hood, and
bundled myself in it.
“He was posing with his fiancée, for like a wedding
picture? And they were doing it in Oregon, right next to
this big cliff. And the photographer was like ‘Move
back, move a little to the left.'And they moved, and he
fell off the cliff.”
“Oh my God!” Aaron shook his head. “How do you
learn this stuff?”
“The Internet.” I smiled.
“That is too good. What happened to the girl?”
“She was fine.”
“She should sue the photographer. Did they sue him?”
“I don't know.”
“They better. I would sue. You know, Craig"— Aaron
looked at me steadily, his eyes red but so alive and
bright—"I'm going to be a lawyer.”
“Oh, yeah?”
“Yeah. Screw my dad. He doesn't make any money.
He's miserable. The only reason we even live where we
do is because my mom's brother is a lawyer and they
got the apartment way back when. It used to be my
uncle's apartment. Now he does work for the building,
so they cut Mom a deal. Everything good I have is due
to lawyers.”
“I think I might want to be one too,” I said.
“Why not? You make money!”
“Yeah.” I looked up. We were on a bright, cold, gray
Manhattan sidewalk. Everything cost so much money. I
looked at the hot dog man, the cheapest thing around—
you wouldn't get away from him without forking over
three or four bucks.
“We should be lawyers together,” Aaron said. “Pardis
and . . . what's your last name?”
“Gilner.”
“Pardis and Gilner.”
Okay.”
We shook hands, maintaining our stride, nearly
clothesline-ing a frilled-up little girl walking in the
other direction. Then we turned up Church Street and
rented this reality DVD, Life Against Death, which had
a lot of cliffs, as well as fires, animal attacks, and
skydiving accidents. I sat propped in Aaron's bed, him
smoking pot and me refusing, feeding off him, telling
him that I thought I was getting a contact high when
really I was just feeling like I had stepped into a new
groove. At cool parts of Life Against Death we paused
and zoomed in: on the hearts of explosions, spinning
wheels after truck crashes, and one guy freaking out in
a gorilla cage and getting a rock thrown at him. We
talked about making our own movie someday.
I didn't go to sleep until four, but I was in some one
else's house, so I woke up early—at eight—with that
crazy sleeping-at-someone-else's-house energy. I
passed Aaron's father at his computer and grabbed a
book off their shelf in the living room—Latin Roots. I
studied Latin Roots all morning, for the test.
We kept doing it. It became a regular thing. We never
formalized it, never named it . . . but on Fridays Aaron
would call and ask me to watch movies. I think he was
lonely. Whatever he was, he became the one person I
wanted to stay in touch with after junior high. And now,
a year later, I was in my kitchen holding my acceptance
letter and wondering if he had one too.
“I'll call Aaron,” I told Mom.
Chapter Eight
“What up, son? Did you get in?!”
“Yeah.”
“Allriiiiiiiight! “
“Hoooooooo—ee! “
“Biyatch!”
“That's right!”
“But you studied. I didn't study at all,” he was like.
“True. I should feel lucky to talk to you. You're kind of
like Hercules.”
“Yeah, cleaning the stables. I'm having a party.”
“When? Tonight?”
“Yup. My parents are away. I have the whole house.
You're coming, right?”
“A real party? Without a cake?”
“Absolutely.”
“Sure!” I was in eighth grade and I had gotten into high
school and I was going to a party? I was set for life!
“Can you bring any booze?”
“Like drinks?”
“Craig, c'mon. Yes. Can you bring?”
“I don't have ID.”
“Craig, none of us have ID! I mean, can you take some
off your parents?”
“I don't think they have any …” But I knew that wasn't
true.
“They have something.”
I held my hand over my cell so Mom wouldn't hear.
“Scotch. They have a bottle of scotch.”
“What kind?”
“Jeez, dude, I don't know.”
“Well, bring it. Can you call any girls?”
I had been in my room studying for a year. “No.”
“That's all right, I'll bring the girls. You want to at least
help me set up?”
“Sure!”
“Get over here.”
“I'm going to Aaron's house!” I announced to Mom,
flipping my phone shut. I still had the welcome packet
in my hand; I gave it to her to put in my room.
“What are you going to do over there?” she asked,
beaming at the packet, then at me.
“Um . . . sleep over.”
“Are you going to celebrate? Because you should
celebrate.”
“Heh. Yeah.”
“Craig, I'm being honest, I've never seen someone
work as hard as you did getting into this school. You
deserve a little break and you deserve to feel proud of
yourself. You're gifted, and the world is taking notice.
This is the first step in an amazing journey—”
“Okay, Mom, please.” I hugged her.
I grabbed my coat and sat at the kitchen table,
pretending to text on the phone. When Mom left the
room, I invaded the cabinet above the sink, took out the
one bottle of scotch (Glenlivet), and fetched from the
back of the cupboard the thermos that I used to use for
grade-school lunches. That would seem really cool at
the party. I poured some scotch in and I put a little
water back in the scotch, in case they checked levels,
and stuffed the thermos in my big jacket pocket before 
leaving the house and calling back to Mom that I would
call her later.
I took the subway to Aaron's without a book to study
on my lap—first time in a year. At his stop, I bounded
up the stairs into the gray streets, slipped into his
building, nodded to the doorman to call up, and
squished my thumb on the elevator button, giving it a
twist and some flair. At the sixteenth floor was Aaron,
holding his front door open, rap music about killing
people on in the background, holding his metal cigarette
out for me.
“Smoke. Celebrate.”
I stopped.
“If anytime's the time, it's now.”
I nodded.
“Come in, I'll show you.” Aaron brought me into his
house and sat me on his couch and demonstrated how to
hold the cigarette so the metal wouldn't burn me. He
explained how you have to take the smoke into your
lungs, not your stomach— “Don't swallow it, Craig,
that's how hits get lost"— and how to let it go as slowly
as you could through your mouth or nose. The key was
to hold it in as long as possible. But you didn't want to
hold it too long. Then you coughed.
“How do I light it?” I asked.
“I'll light it for you,” Aaron was like. He knelt in front
of me on the couch—I took a look at his living room,
fenced in with floor-to-ceiling bookshelves, filled up
with a coffee table, a tall fluted ash tray, a porcelain
dog, and a small electric piano— trying to remember
how it all looked in case it changed later. The only thing
I had done that people said was kind of like smoking
pot was go really hard on the swings, and Aaron had
told me that anyone who said that was probably high
when they were on the swings.
The butane flame went up.
I sucked in on the metal cigarette as if a doctor were
telling me to.
My mouth filled up with the taste that I knew so well
from Aaron's room—a chemical taste, buzzy and light.
I looked him in the eyes with my cheeks puffed out. He
clipped the flame, smiling.
“Not in your cheeks!” he said. “You look like Dizzy
Gillespie! In your lungs! Put it in your lungs.”
I worked with new muscles. The smoke in me felt like a
blob of clay.
“That's it, hold it, hold it. . .”
My eyes started watering, getting hot.
“Hold it. Hold it. You want more?”
I shook my head, terrified. Aaron laughed.
“Okay. Dude, you're good. You're good, dude!”
Pfffffffffflt. I blew it all in Aaron's face.
“Jesus! Man, that was big!” Aaron swatted at the cloud
that came out of me. “You sure you haven't done this
before?”
I panted, breathing in air that still had the smoke in it.
“What's going to happen?” I asked.
“Probably nothing.” Aaron stood up, took his cigarette
back, put it in the stand-up ash tray. Then he reached
down with his hand out—I expected a handshake, but
he pulled me off the couch. “Congratulations.“
We hugged, mouth to ear. It was a guy hug, complete
with slapping. I leaned back and smiled at him as I
clasped his arms.
“You too, man. It's going to be great.”
“I'm-a tell you what's going to be great: this party,”
Aaron said, and he began pacing, counting on his
fingers. “I need for you to go and get some seltzer, for
spritzers. Also we gotta put away all of my dad's books
and writing so it doesn't get damaged. Also, call this 
girl; her dad threatened to call the cops if I called again;
say you're with Greenpeace.”
“I'm not going to remember this; hold on,” I said,
taking an index card from Aaron's coffee table. I was
numbering it with a Sharpie, from one, when the weed
hit me.
“Whoa. Wow.”
“Uh-oh,” Aaron said. He looked up.
“Whoa.”“You feeling it?”
Is my brain falling out of my head? I thought.
I looked down at the index card that said 1)get seltzer,
and 1) get seltzer twisted back, as if it had decided to
fall off the card. I looked up at Aaron's bookshelves
and they looked the same, but as I turned, they moved
in frames. It wasn't like the slowness that came from
being underwater; it was like I was under air—thick and
heavy air that had decided to follow me. For being high,
it felt pretty heavy.
“You feeling it?” Aaron repeated.
I looked at his stand-up ashtray, filled with crumpled
cigarettes and the one clear, shining metal cigarette.
“It's like the king of the cigarette butts!” I said.
“Oh, boy,” Aaron was like. “Craig. Are you going to be
able to do the stuff for the party?”
Was I? I was able to do anything. Here I was making
clever statements like “king of the cigarette butts"; if I
went outside, there was no telling what I would be
capable of.
“What's first?” I asked.
Aaron gave me a few bucks to get the seltzer, but just as
I was opening the door to go out into the world, his
buzzer rang.
“It's Nia,” Aaron said, leaping to the closed-circuit
phone in his kitchen, which was full of grapefruits and
dark wood cabinets.
“She's coming?” I asked.
Nia was in our class; she was half Chinese and half
Jewish; she dressed well. Every day she came in with
something different—a chain of SpongeBob Burger
King toys strung around her neck; one asymmetrical,
giant, red-plastic hoop earring; black clown circles on
her cheeks. I think her accessories were a courtesy
meant to distract from her small, lucrative body and
baby-doll face. If she let it all go natural, if she just let
her hair swing down the way it would have if she'd
grown up in a field with the wind, she'd make all us
boys explode.
“Nia's pretty hot, huh,” Aaron said, hanging up the
phone.
“She's okay.”
We sat watching the door like we were waiting for the
mama bird to bring us food. She knocked.
“Heyyyy,” Aaron called, beating me.
“Hi!” I said. We rushed to the doorknob; Aaron gave a
look, pulled it toward him, and there she was—in a
green dress with a rainbow of fuzzy anklets on one leg.
Her eyes were so big and dark that she seemed even
more tiny and spindly, on high-heeled shoes that threw
her forward at us and made her dress outline her little
breasts.
“Boys,” she said. “I think someone has been smoking
pah-aht.”
“No way,” Aaron said.
“My friends are coming. When's the party start-ing?”
“Five minutes ago,” Aaron said. “You want to play
Scrabble?”
“Scrabble!” Nia put her bag down—it was shaped like a
hippo. “Who plays Scrabble?”
“Well, I do, duh, and Craig does, too"—I didn't,
actually—"and we're some smart guys, seeing as we
got in.”
“I heard!” Nia grabbed her hippo bag and hit Aaron
with it. “I did too!” As an afterthought, she hit me.
“Congratulations!”
“Group hug!” Aaron announced, and we got together, a
tiered threesome—Nia's head came up to my chin; my
head came up to Aaron's chin. I put my hand around
Nia's waist and felt her warmth and how narrow she
was. Her palm curled around my shoulder. We pushed
our torsos together in a sort of ballet. I could feel Nia's
breath between us. I turned to look—
“Scrabble,” Aaron said. He went across the living room,
took it out of one of the bookshelves. He put it on the
floor and we sat, Aaron between me and Nia, the
ashtray taking up the fourth spot.
“House rules,” Aaron said as he flipped over the tiles.
“If you don't have any words to put on the board, you
can make a word up, as long as you have an actual
definition for that word in your head. If your definition
makes the other people laugh, you get the points, but
otherwise, you lose that many points.”
“We can make up words?” I asked. This was brimming
with possibilities. I could make up Niaed—what 
happens when Nia touches you, you get Niaed. That
would make her laugh. Or not.
“What about Chinese words?” Nia asked.
“You have to know what they mean and be able to
explain them.”
“Oh. That shouldn't be a problem.” She smiled
wickedly.
“Who's going first?”
“Can we smoke?”
“So demanding.” Aaron gave her the metal cigarette—I
said no this time; I'd had enough.
For her first word, Nia put down M-U-W-L-I.
“What is that?” I asked.
“Chinese word.”
“What's it mean?”
“Uh, cat.”
“That's ridiculous. How do we know if muwli is real?”
I turned to Aaron.
He shrugged. “Benefit of the doubt?”
Nia stuck out her tongue at me and damn it was a cute
tongue. Is that a ring? I thought. Can't be. Wait—it's
gone.
“I swear.” she said. ‘"Come here, little muwli!' See?”
“I'm checking you on your next one,” I said.
“The Internet's over there.” Aaron was like.
“But while you're gone, we're going to give you all
consonants.” Nia smiled.
“Is it my go?” I put down M-O-P off M-U-W-L-I. Ten
points.
Aaron put down S-M-A-P off M-O-P. “That's a cross
between a smack and a slap. Like, ‘I'm-a smap you.'”
Nia laughed and laughed. I chuckled even though I
didn't want to. Aaron got the points.
Nia put down T-R-I-I-L.
“What is that?” I asked.
“It's a trill, you know, like a trill on the flute, except the
first L is lowercase and the second is uppercase!”
“That's not trill, that's ‘tree-eel'!”
“Okay, fine.” She switched the letters. Now it said T-RI-L-I.
“Trill-ee! What is a trilhee?”
“An unmentionable act.”
Aaron laughed so hard that he just had to ease his body
into Nia's, leaning on her shoulder. She pushed back,
tilting her flank into him.
I saw where this was going. I made eye contact with
Nia and here's what her eyes said:
Craig, we're all headed to the same school. I'm going to
need a boyfriend going in, to give me some stability, a
little bit of backup, you know? Nothing serious. You're
cool, but you're not as cool as Aaron. He has pot and
he's so much more laid back than you; you spent the
last year studying for this test; he didn't lift a finger for
it. That means he's smarter than you. Not that you're
not smart, but intelligence is very important in a guy—
it really is the most important thing, up there with sense
of humor. And he has a better sense of humor than you,
too. It doesn't hurt that he's taller. So I'll be your
friend, but right now let's let this develop. And don't be
jealous. That would be a waste of everybody's time.
We kept playing. Aaron and Nia moved closer until
their knees touched, and I could only imagine the
energy that was going through those knees. I thought
maybe they were going to lean in for a first kiss (or a
second? No, Aaron would have told me) right in front
of me, when the buzzer rang again.
It was Nia's friend Cookie. She had brought bottles of
beer. We took ten minutes to open them, eventually
hitting them against Aaron's kitchen countertop edge, to
work the tops off. Then Nia said Cookie should've
gotten twist-offs, and she asked what twist-offs were,
and we all laughed. Cookie had blond hair and glitter all
over her neck. She hadn't gotten into Executive PreProfessional, but that was okay because she was going
to high school in Canada. The guy down at the local
bodega let her buy beer if she leaned over the counter—
she had developed early and had the kind of massive
alluring breasts that moved in reverse rhythm when she
walked.
We put Scrabble away—nobody won. The rap music
seemed to be hooked up to some sort of Internetcapable playlist and kept going, never repeating, as
more and more guests arrived. There was Anna—she
was on Ritalin and snorted it off her little cosmetic
mirror before tests; Paul—he was nationally ranked in
Halo 2 and trained five hours a day with his “team” in
Seattle (he was going to put it on his college
applications); Mika—his dad was a higher-up in the
Taxi and Limousine Commission and he had some sort
of badge that allowed him to get free cab rides
anywhere, anytime. People started showing up who I
had no idea who they were, like a stocky white kid in an
Eight Ball jacket, which he announced, coming in, was 
so popular back in the ‘90s that you would get knived
just for having it and nobody had vintage like him.
Inexplicably, someone came in a Batman mask. His
name was Race.
A short, pugnacious, mustached kid named Ronny came
with a backpack full of pot and set up shop in the living
room.
A girl with hemp bracelets in different subtle shades
proclaimed that we had to listen to Sublime's 40oz to
Freedom, and when Aaron refused to put it on, she
started gyrating and put what she claimed was a Devil
curse on him, saying, “Diablo Tantunka” and pointing
her fingers in mock horns: “Fffffffft! Fffffffft!”
I smoked more pot. The party was like a movie— it
should have been a movie. It was the best movie I'd
ever seen—where else did you get shattering glasses, a
kid trying to break-dance in the living room, a
dictionary being thrown at a roach, a kid holding his
head in the freezer and saying it could get you high,
orange vomit spread out in a semicircle in the kitchen
sink, people yelling out the windows that “school
sucks,” rap music declaring “I want to drink beers and
smoke some shit,” and one poor soul snorting a Pixie
Stik, then hacking purple dust into the toilet… ?
Nowhere.
Chapter Nine
Aaron and Nia talked on the couch. I took my thermos
of scotch—just to have something in my hand; I didn't
open it—and watched how they moved, swaying
toward and away from each other in increments that I
doubt they even recognized. They stopped becoming
people in my eyes; they morphed right into male and
female sex organs on a collision course.
“What's going on, son?” Ronny asked. Ronny hadn't
gotten his first piece of jewelry yet; he was in like a
larval state. “You enjoying yourself?”
I was enjoying everything but Aaron and Nia. And the
scotch. I wanted him to think I was enjoying the scotch,
at least.
“Do you like this stuff?” I asked, opening my thermos.
“What is it?” He sniffed. “Yeah, dude, that's hard core.
You gotta sip it.”
I put it to my lips. I didn't even take any in, just let it
filter against me and felt how hot it was. It was cutting,
evil, and bitter-smelling—
Ronny shoved the thermos at my mouth.
“Sip it!”
“Dude!” I backed off as scotch splashed on my shirt; it
felt lighter, slicker, and warmer than water. “You're
such a dick!”
“Pause!” He ran across the room and punched this kid
Asen, told him he'd had sex with his mom, and threw a
pillow at Aaron and Nia, who were now attached by the
lips on the couch.
I wasn't that mad that it was happening. I was just mad
that I'd missed how it happened. I hadn't seen him lean
in, or her; I wanted to know for the future, for some girl
who wasn't as desirable. But now at least I got a show;
I got to see how Aaron moved his hands. He put his
right hand on her face over and over, gently, while his
left slid around her side and gripped the small of her
back more firmly. His hands were playing good-copbad-cop.
There was still some scotch in the thermos. I drank
from it. The taste didn't bother me since Ronny's
shove.
“I didn't know you drank, Craig!” a voice was like
behind me. Julie, who always wore sweatpants that said
Nice Try in an arc on her butt cheeks, clanked a beer
against my thermos.
“I don't, really,” I was like.
“I thought you'd be busy studying. I heard you got into
the school. What are you going to do now?”
“Go there.”
“No, I mean with your time.”
I shrugged. “I'll work hard at school, get good grades,
go to a good college, get a good job.”
“It was crazy how much you studied. You always had
those cards.”
I looked at the scotch. My esophagus was scorched, but
I took more.
“Did you see Aaron and Nia making out? They're so
cute!”
“They're making out?” I was shocked.
“Yeah, haven't you seen?”
“I saw them hooking up,” I explained, looking out the
kitchen at them. “I didn't think they were having sex.”
“They're not!”
“I thought making out was having sex.”
“Jeez, Craig, no. Making out is making out.”
“Is that the same as hooking up?”
“Well, hooking up can mean having sex. You got
confused.”
Aaron and Nia were fully occupied now. One of his
hands was hidden, exploring magical beige places.
“You should put it on one of your cards.”
“Heh.” I smiled.
Julie took a step toward me. “I really want to make out
with somebody right now.”
Oh, cool.”
“I've been looking and looking for someone.”
“Um…” I eyed her. Her short blond hair framed a face
that was a little wide at the bottom, and toothy, and
somewhat red all around. I didn't want to hook up with
her or make out with her or whatever. The person I
wanted was ten feet away. This would be my first kiss,
if she were offering me. Girls loved to say that they
wanted to hook up with “someone” when it was anyone
but you. Julie tilted her head up, though, with her eyes
closed. I looked at her lips, trying to make myself kiss
them, but stopped. For my first kiss, I didn't want to
settle. Julie opened her eyes.
“Are you okay, man?”
“Yeah, yeah, I just . . .” Whew. I'm drunk and stoned,
Julie. Give me a break.
“It's okay.” She left the room, and soon after, the party.
I had hurt her feelings, I found out later; I didn't know I
had that power.
I wandered over to the laptop that was supplying the
music to the stereo. Next to it was Aaron's father's
record collection, shelved in the bookshelf, of old vinyl
records. I suddenly needed some discrete information to
put in my brain, to push out what was there, so I pulled
a record out.
Led Zeppelin III.
It was big—as big as the laptop—and the cover was a
spiral of images: male heads with lots of hair, rainbows,
blimps (I guessed those were the Zeppelins), flowers,
teeth. The edge of the record stuck out a bit, like a tab
on a five-subject notebook, and I grabbed it
experimentally. It turned, and when it turned, the whole
circle turned inside, and the images that showed
through the little holes changed: rainbows into stars,
blimps into planes, flowers into dragonflies. It was
frickin'awesome. One of the symbols that popped up
looked just like the levels of Q-Bert, one of the best old
video games—I didn't realize Led Zeppelin had
invented Q-Bert!
I looked up—Aaron and Nia were still at it. Now he had
his hand in her hair and he was pulling her toward him
like a gas mask. I held the album up to hide their heads.
Heh.
I dropped the album. Aaron and Nia. I held it up. More
images. It was like they were part of it.
The house filled up. People began getting in line to go
into one of Aaron's book-filled closets. They weren't
making out or anything—a kid named John had
announced that he had sprayed pepper spray in there
and people were going in to see if they could handle it.
Boys and a few girls stumbled out going “Aggg, my
eyes!” and tearing, and running for water, but that
didn't stop the ones lined up after them. It seemed like
everyone at the party went except me.
I looked at more albums, like the Beatles' White
Album, which I never knew was actually white, and
each time I looked up, Aaron and Nia were in a deeper
state of entanglement. Suddenly I got really sleepy and
warm, from the scotch I guess, and leaned against the
album stack, just trying to rest my eyes for a minute.
When I woke up I looked instinctively for Aaron and
Nia; they had disappeared. I craned from behind my
resting spot and looked at the clock above the TV;
somehow it was 2:07 A.M.
Chapter Ten
The house had thinned out.
Jeez. I got up. The laptop playlist had stopped. My
night was over. All I had done was look at records and
almost hook up with a girl, but somehow I felt
accomplished.
“Uh, Ronny?” I asked.
Ronny was playing PlayStation on Aaron's couch. The
PlayStation cord stretched across the room. He looked
up.
“What?”
“Where is everybody?”
“Having sex with your mom.”
Next to Ronny, a girl named Donna was balled up in a
lump on one end of the couch. The guy with the Eight
Ball jacket occupied a chair. Someone yelled to put on
more music; Ronny yelled to Shut up, son. The house
was full of cups—mugs and glasses everywhere, like
they had been multiplying during the party.
“Does anyone know where Aaron is?”
“Pause,” was all Ronny could manage.
“Aaron!”
“Shut up, man! He's with his chick.”
“I'm here, I'm here!” Aaron strode out from his room,
adjusting his pants. “Jeez.” He surveyed the damage.
“What's up? You have a good rest?”
“Shoot, yeah. Where's Nia?”
“Asleep.”
“You did her good, huh?” Ronny asked. “Asian
invasion.”
“Shut up, Ronny.”
“Asian contagion.”
“Shut up.”
“Asian persuasion.”
Aaron yanked his controller out of the PlayStation.
“Suh-uhn!” Ronny scrambled for it.
“You want to go for a walk?” Aaron asked.
“Sure!” I got my jacket.
Aaron woke up Eight Ball jacket and Donna and got
them out; he forced Ronny to leave too, over many
protests. We all took the elevator down; Eight-Ball
jacket and Ronny went uptown; Donna and two others 
slid into a cab; me and Aaron, instinctively, started
toward the shimmering Brooklyn Bridge, which carved
its way through the night about three blocks from his
house.
“You want to walk across the bridge?” Aaron asked.
“Into Brooklyn?”
“Yeah. You can go home or we can take the subway
back to my place.”
“When will it be light?”
“In three, four hours.”
“Let's do it. I'll walk home and get breakfast.”
“Cool.”
We walked in step. My feet weren't cold at all. My
head swam. I looked at bare trees and thought they were
beautiful. The only way it could have been better was if
it were snowing. Then I'd have flakes dripping down on
me and I'd be able to catch them in my mouth. I
wouldn't be worried about Aaron seeing that.
“So, how do you feel?” I was like.
“About what?” he was like.
“You know,” I was like.
“Hold on a second.” Aaron spotted a Snapple bottle on
the curb; it looked like it was filled with urine, which
happens a lot in Manhattan—I don't know why but
homeless people fill up bottles with piss and then don't
even have the courtesy to throw them away—but then
again it could be apple Snapple—did they have that? He
lunged at it and sent it sailing across the street with a
three-point kick; it landed on the opposite curb and
shattered yellow under the streetlight.
“Rrnagh!” Aaron screamed. Then he looked around.
“There aren't any cops, right?”
I laughed. “No.” We came to the entrance to the bridge.
“So seriously, what was it like?”
“She's awesome. I mean, she likes everything— she
really likes it. She likes. .. sex.”
“You had sex with her?”
“No, but I can tell. She likes everything else.”
“What'd you do?”
He told me.
“No way!” I pushed him as we climbed the bridge. Air
from the frigid New York Harbor blew at us, and I put
my hood up over my head and tightened the chewed
cord. “What was it like?”
“It's the craziest thing,” Aaron was like. “It feels just
like the inside of your cheek.”
“No kidding?” I pulled one hand out of my pocket.
“Yeah.”
I stuck a finger in my mouth and pushed to the side.
“That's it?”
“Just like that,” Aaron said. He had his finger in his
cheek too. “I'm serious. It's hot.”
“Huh.”
We walked in silence with our fingers in our mouths.
“Did you hook up with anyone?” he asked.
“Nope. Julie wanted to, though.”
“Nice one. Did she slip you something?”
“What? No.”
“Because you crashed out pretty hard in the corner over
there.”
“I was drinking my mom's scotch and checking out
your dad's albums.”
“You're a trip, Craig.”
“It's cold out here.”
“Looks pretty cool, though.”
We weren't even a tenth of the way up the bridge, but it
did look cool. Behind us the walkway extended to City
Hall, where the city had sprung for some spotlights to
illuminate the dome of the building. It looked like a
white pearl nestled between giants like the Woolworth
building, which I learned in English class Ayn Rand
had described as a “finger of God,” and that was about
right—green and white at the top like the world's most
decorated mint. To our left were the other bridges of
Manhattan, arrayed against each other like alternating
sin and cos waves, carrying a smattering of late-night
trucks whose tops trailed mist.
But to the right was the best view: New York Harbor.
Mostly black. The Statue of Liberty was lit up, but it
always struck me as a little cheesy, standing out there
being all cute. The real action was on the sides:
Manhattan had its no-nonsense downtown, where
people made money, and on the other side was
Brooklyn, sleepy and dark but with a trump card—the
container cranes, lit up not for show or government
pride but because there was work going on, even at this
hour—ships unloading stuff that was famously
unchecked for terrorist threats but somehow hadn't
blown us up yet. Brooklyn was a port. New York was a
port. We got things done. I had gotten things done, too.
Between Brooklyn and Manhattan, miles across the
water, we saw the final curtain of New York City—the
Verrazano Narrows Bridge. It spanned the opening to
the port, a steel-blue pair of upper lips greeting the
blackness.
I could do anything anywhere, in all four directions.
“Craig?” Aaron was like.
“What's up.”
“What's up with you? You okay?”
“I'm happy,” I said.
“Why not?”
“No, I said I'm happy”
“I know. Why not be?”
We came up to the first tower of the bridge, with a
plaque proclaiming who had built it; I stopped to read.
John Roebling. Aided by his wife, and then his son. He
died during construction. But hey, the Brooklyn Bridge
might be here for eight hundred years. I wanted to leave
something like that behind. I didn't know how I was
going to do it, but I felt like I had taken the first steps.
“The really cool thing about Nia …” Aaron was saying,
and he started to go into anatomical details, things
about her that I didn't need to hear; I tuned him out; I
knew he was talking to himself. This was what he was
happy about. I was happy about different stuff. I was
happy because someday I'd be walking across this
bridge looking at this city, owning some piece of it,
being valuable here.
“Her butt is like—I think her butt shape is where they
got the heart logo. . . .”
We came to the middle of the bridge. On either side of
us the cars hissed past; red on the left and white on the
right, the lanes encased by thin metal trussing that
stretched out from the walkway.
I had a sudden urge to walk out over the trussing and
lean over the water, to declare myself to the world.
Once it came into my head, I couldn't push it away.
“I don't know if it was real—” Aaron was saying.
“I want to stand out over the water,” I told him.
“What?”
“Come with me. You want to do it?”
He stopped.
“Yeah,” he said. “Yeah, I see where you're coming
from.”
There were pathways built onto the top of the trussing,
places for the bridge workers to get out to the cables 
and repair them. I clambered onto one on the harbor
side, the side crowned by the Verrazano, and grabbed
the handrails and balanced my feet one in front of the
other on a piece of metal about four inches wide. Below
me cabs and SUVs hummed by. In front of me was the
black of the water and the black of the sky and the cold.
“You're crazy,” Aaron said.
I took steps forward. It was easy. Stuff like this always
is. The stuff adults tell you not to do is the easiest.
Below me there were three lanes of traffic; I cleared the
first, got halfway over the second; then Aaron yelled:
“What are you going to do out there?!”
“I'm just going to think!” I called back.
“About what?”
I shook my head. I couldn't explain. “It'll only take a
minute!”
Aaron turned back.
I moved past the second lane and kept my eyes on the
horizon. I didn't move my eyes from it for the last lane,
shifting my hands in front of one another in a tight
rhythm. I came to the edge of the bridge and was sort of
surprised how there wasn't any fence. There wasn't
anything to keep you from falling off, just your hands 
and your will. I gripped the bars at either side—they
were freezing—and then sprung my hands open and
spread my arms wide and felt the wind whip and tug at
me as I leaned myself over the water like . . . well, like
Christ, I guess.
I closed my eyes and opened them, and the only
difference was the feel of the wind on my eyeballs,
because when I closed them I could still see the dotted
lights perfectly. I threw back my head and yelled. When
I was a kid I read these books, the Redwall books,
fantasy books about a bunch of warrior mice, and the
mice had this war cry that I always thought was cool:
“Eulalia.”
And like an idiot, that's what I yelled off the Brooklyn
Bridge:
Eulaliaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
And I could have died right then.
And considering how things went, I really should have.
Chapter Eleven
Depression starts slow. After howling off the Brooklyn
Bridge, I walked home and felt great. Aaron split and
took a late-night subway back to Manhattan, where he
had a hell of a time cleaning up his apartment and
returning Nia to her parents; I went to a diner and got
some eggs and wheat toast and came home at ten in the
morning, telling Mom I had slept over at Aaron's, and
pouring myself into bed. When I got up in the afternoon
there were some forms to sign about accepting my
admission to Executive Pre-Professional and a physical
to schedule—how glorious. For once I was looking
forward to the doctor holding my balls and telling me to
cough, which I still don't understand why they do.
The rest of junior high was a joke. I didn't need to do
anything except make sure I didn't fail a class and get
“rescinded” from Executive Pre-Professional, so I
started hanging out with Aaron every day. Now that we
had the pot barrier broken, it became a magnificent haze
of yelling back at the TV; we stopped calling it
“watching movies"; we started calling it “chilling.”
“Want to chill?” Aaron would ask, and I would pop on
over.
Ronny was never far behind. His insults never stopped,
although they became more lovable, but that didn't 
matter, because he grew into a reliable dealer. He
wasn't going to high school with us—for all we knew,
he wasn't going at all—but he was going to set up a
jewelry shop, sell drugs, and make beats, that was for
sure.
Nia was always around, too. She and Aaron spent about
as much time apart as me and my right hand. I thought I
was cool with it, but as I saw them—sitting with each
other, sitting on each other, hugging each other,
touching each other's butt, smiling and kissing, in
Aaron's room or in public—I started to get more and
more pissed off. It was like they were throwing it in my
face, although I knew neither of them meant that, the
way I had thrown my studying in people's faces and not
meant it. Why else would they tell each other how
much they wanted each other in whispers in front of
me? Why else would Aaron tell me, in great detail,
about the first time they had sex? One day Aaron
announced to me and Ronny as we watched MTV,
“You know what, since I got with Nia, I've forgotten
how to masturbate.”
“Me too, since I found your mom,” Ronny said.
“Huh,” I said. My stomach hitched.
“I'm serious, I don't even know, anymore!” Aaron
grinned.
Great, man. Wonderful. I learned how to masturbate the
last few months of junior high, when I went on AOL
and started talking to girls with names like “Little
Luscious Lolita42.” I don't know if they were really
girls. I just knew that I was lonely, and I wanted to
make it so that when I got with someone, I'd have some
idea what to do.
Problem was, no matter what girl I was talking to
online, when I came to the end of the whole process, I
would run to the bathroom. And as I knelt down in front
of the toilet, in the final few milliseconds, I would think
about Nia.
I had homework for school even before school started.
They gave me this insane reading list for the summer
that included Under the Volcano and David
Copperfield. I tried to read them; I really did, but it
wasn't like flash cards. It took days. Mom actually read
the letters that the school sent and told me that part of
their mission was to make us well-rounded, liberally
educated bearers of tomorrow's vision, so I had better
be ready to do English as well as math; but I found
myself jealous of the people who wrote the books. They
were dead and they were still taking up my time. Who
did they think they were? I would much rather chill at
Aaron's, sit in my room, run to the Internet and then to
the bathroom, rinse, cycle, repeat. I ended up not
finishing any of the summer-reading-list books.
That wasn't good when it came time to start school. The
first day, I was quizzed on what I was supposed to have
read over the summer. I got a 70, something I'd never
seen on a sheet of paper in my life. Where do you see
the number 70? There are no $70 bills; there's no
reason to get a $70 check. I looked at the 70 as if it had
stolen from me.
Aaron, who ended up in eight out of my nine classes,
got a 100 on the start-of-school reading quiz. He had
read the books in Europe, where he got to go over the
summer because his dad's books were popular there. He
came back not just tan and full of knowledge and
pictures, but ripe with stories of the European girls he
had hooked up with. He said he and Nia had talked and
she was totally cool with the other girls; he said he was
busy turning her into a freak, someone who would be
down for anything. When we hung out now, I didn't say
half as much as I did that first night; I just listened and
stayed impressed, tried to control my lower half while
Nia was there, pictured her in different freeze-frames
for later in the evening.
Executive Pre-Professional High School was hard.
The teachers all told me I was going to have four hours
of homework a night, but I didn't believe it— plus I
believed I could handle it. I had gotten into the school;
I'd definitely be able to take anything it could dish out,
right?
The first semester, in addition to the book list, I had this
class called Intro to Wall Street that required me to pick
up the New York Times and Wall Street Journal every
day. It turned out I was supposed to have been picking
them up over the summer as well—some kind of
handout that I didn't get in the mail. I needed to create a
portfolio of current events articles and show how they
related to stock prices, and to get the back issues. I
couldn't use the Internet; the teacher made me go to the
library and use microfiche, which is like trying to read
the U.S. Constitution off a postage stamp, and when I
got two weeks behind on that, I had two more weeks of
newspapers to pick up. The papers were so long; it was
unbelievable how much news there was every day. And
I was supposed to scan it all? How did anyone do it?
The papers piled up in my room, and every day when I
came home I looked at them and knew that I could
handle them, that if I just opened that first one I'd be
able to get through them all and get the assignment
done.
Instead I lay in bed and waited for Aaron to call.
It was about this time that I started labeling things
Tentacles. I had a lot of Tentacles. I needed to cut some
of them. But I couldn't; they were all too strong and
they had me wrapped too tight; and to cut them I'd have
to do something crazy like admit that I wasn't equipped
for school.
The other kids were geniuses. I thought I was a big deal
for getting an 800 on the exam—like the entire entering
class had gotten 800. It turned out the test had been
“broken” in my year; they were tweaking it to make it
less formulaic—i.e., less likely to let in people like me.
There were kids from Uruguay and Korea who had just
learned English but were doing extra credit for the
current events stuff in Intro to Wall Street, reading
Barron's and Crain's Business Daily. There were
freshmen taking calculus, while I was stuck in the math
that came after algebra, which the teacher announced on
the first day was “ding-dong” math and there was no
reason for us not to get a 100 in everything. I got an 85
on my first test and a small frowny face.
Plus there were extracurriculars. Other kids did
everything: they were on student government; they
played sports; they volunteered; they worked for the
school newspaper; they had a film club; they had a
literature club; they had a chess club; they entered
nationwide competitions for building robots out of
tongue depressors; they helped teachers out after
school; they took classes at local colleges; they assisted
on “orientation days.” I didn't do anything but school
and Tae Bo, where I hit a plateau. They humored me in
class, letting me fake-fight and do my not-that-formfitting pushups, but the teacher knew it was something
that I didn't really enjoy. I quit. That was the only
Tentacle I ever cut.
Why were the other kids doing better than me? Because
they were better, that's why. That's what I knew every
time I sat down online or got on the subway to Aaron's
house. Other people weren't smoking and jerking off,
and those that were were gifted—able to live and
compete at the same time. I wasn't gifted. Mom was
wrong. I was just smart and I worked hard. I had fooled
myself into thinking that was something important to
the rest of the world. Other people were complicit in
this ruse. Nobody had told me I was common.
That's not to say I did terrible in high school—I got
93's. That looked good to my parents. Problem is, in the
real world, 93 is the crap grade; colleges know what it
means—you do just well enough to stay in the 90's.
You're average. There are a lot of you. You aren't
going over the top; if you're not doing any
extracurriculars you're done. You can change things in
later years, but with 93's your freshman year, you're
going to have a lot of dead weight.
In December, three months into Executive PreProfessional, I had stress vomiting for the first time. It
happened with my parents at a restaurant; I was eating
tuna steak with spinach. They had brought me out to
celebrate the holidays and talk with me. They had no
idea. I sat there looking at the food and thinking about
the Tentacles waiting for me at home, and for the first
time the man in my stomach appeared and said I wasn't 
getting any of it; I had better back down, buddy,
because otherwise this was going to get ugly.
“How's biology class?” Mom asked.
Biology class was hell. I had to memorize these
hormones and what they did and I hadn't been able to
make flash cards because I was too busy clipping
newspaper articles.
“Fine.”
“How's Intro to Wall Street?” Dad asked.
A guy from Bear Stearns had visited our class, thin and
bald with a gold watch. He told us that if we were
interested in getting into finance, we had better work
hard and smart because a lot of machines were able to
make investment decisions now, and in the future,
computer programs would run everything. He asked the
class how many of us were taking computer science,
and everybody but me and this one girl who didn't
speak English raised their hands.
“Great, excellent,” the guy had said. “You other people
are out of a job! Heh heh. Learn comp sci.”
Please die right now, I mumbled in my head, where
more and more activity was taking place. The Cycling
had begun to develop, although it hadn't hit hard, and I
didn't know quite what it was yet.
“Wall Street is fine,” I told Dad across the table. The
restaurant we were at was one of the ones in Brooklyn
that was featured in a Times article I had yet to read for
current events. I didn't think we could really afford it,
so I didn't get an appetizer.
The spinach and tuna mulled in my stomach. My whole
body was tight. Why was I here? Why wasn't I off
somewhere studying?
Soldier, what is the problem?
I can't eat this. I know I should be able to.
Get over it. Eat it.
I can't.
You know why that is?
Why?
Because you're wasting your time, soldier! There's a
reason the U.S. Army isn't made up of potheads!
You're spending all your time at your little horn-dog
friend's house and when you get home you can't do
what you have to do!
I know. I don't know how I can be so ambitious and so
lazy at the same time.
I'll tell you how, soldier. It's because you're not
ambitious. You're just lazy.
“I've got to be excused,” I told my parents, and I
walked through the restaurant with that fast-walking
gonna-throw-up gait—a run aching to get out—that I
learned to perfect over the next year. I came to the
chrome bathroom and let it go in the toilet. Afterward I
sat, turned the light off, and pissed. I didn't want to get
up. What was wrong with me? Where did I lose it? I
had to stop smoking pot. I had to stop hanging out with
Aaron. I had to be a machine.
I didn't get out of the bathroom until someone came and
knocked.
When I went back to my parents, I told them: “I think I
might be, y'know, depressed.”
Chapter Twelve
The first doctor was Dr. Barney. He was fat and short
and had a puckered and expressionless face like a very
serious gnome.
“What's the problem?” He leaned back in his small
gray chair. It sounded like a callous way to put things,
but the way he phrased it, so soft and concerned, I liked
him.
“I think I have a serious depression.”
“Uh-huh.”
“It started last fall.”
“All right,” he took shorthand on the pad on his desk.
Next to the pad was a cup that read Zyprexa, which I
thought was the craziest-sounding medical name I'd
ever heard. (It turned out to be a drug for psychotics, I
wondered if maybe a psychotic person had called a
doctor a “zyprexa” and that's how they came up with
the name.) Everything in Dr. Barney's office was
branded—the Post-it notes said Paxil on them; his pens
were all for Prozac; the desk calendar had Zoloft on
each page.
“I got into this high school, and I had every reason to be
the happiest guy in the world,” I continued. “But I just
started freaking out and feeling worse and worse.”
“Uh-huh. You completed your sheet, I see.”
“Yes.” I held up the sheet that they had given me in the
waiting room. It was a standard sheet, apparently, that
they gave all the new recruits at the Anthem Mental
Health Center, the building in downtown Brooklyn
where this brain evaluation was taking place. The sheet
had a bunch of questions about emotions you had felt
over the past two weeks and four checkboxes for each
one. For example, Feelings of hopelessness and failure.
Feeling difficulty with your appetite. Feeling that you
are unable to cope with daily life. For each one, you
could check 1) Never, 2) Some days, 3) Nearly every
day, or 4) All the time.
I had run down the list, checking mostly threes and
fours.
“They like to collect these sheets every time you come
in, to see how you're doing,” Dr. Barney con tinued,
“but on yours right now there's one item of concern that
we should discuss.”
“Uh-huh?”
“ ‘Feeling suicidal or that you want to hurt
yourself.'You checked ‘3) Nearly every day.'”
“Right, well, not trying to hurt myself. I wouldn't cut
myself or anything stupid. If I wanted to do it, I would
just do it.”
“Suicide.”
It felt strange to hear. “Right.”
“Do you have a plan?”
“Brooklyn Bridge.”
“You'd jump off the Brooklyn Bridge.”
I nodded. “I'm familiar with it.”
“How long have you had feelings like that, Craig?”
“Since last year, mostly.”
“What about before then?”
“Well . . . I've had them for years. Just less intense. I
thought they were, you know, just part of growing up.”
“Suicidal feelings.”
I nodded.
Dr. Barney stared at me, his lips puckered. What was he
so serious about? Who hasn't thought about killing
themselves, as a kid? How can you grow up in this
world and not think about it? It's an option taken by a
lot of successful people: Ernest Hemingway, Socrates, 
Jesus. Even before high school, I thought that it would
be a cool thing to do if I ever got really famous. If I
kept making my maps, for instance, and some art
collector came across them and decided to make them
worth hundreds of thousands of dollars, if I killed
myself at the height of that, they'd be worth millions of
dollars, and I wouldn't be responsible for them
anymore. I'd have left behind something that spoke for
itself, like the Brooklyn Bridge.
“I thought . . . you haven't really lived until you've
contemplated suicide,” I said. “I thought like it would
be good to have a reset switch, like on the video games,
to start again and see if you could go a different way.”
Dr. Barney said, “It sounds as if you've been battling
this depression for a long time.”
I stopped. No I hadn't. . .Yes I had.
Dr. Barney said nothing.
Then he said, “You have a flat affect.”
“What's that?”
“You're not expressing a lot of emotion about these
things.”
“Oh. Well. They're too big.”
“I see. Let's talk a little about your family.”
“Mom designs postcards; Dad works in health
insurance,” I said.
“They're together?”
“Yes.”
“Any brothers or sisters?”
“One sister. Younger. Sarah. She's worried about me.”
“How so?”
“She's always asking me whether I'm good or bad, and
when I tell her I'm bad she says, ‘Craig, please get
better, everyone is trying.'Things like that. It breaks my
heart.”
“But she cares.”
“Yeah.”
“Your family supports you coming here?”
“When I told them about it they didn't waste any time.
They say it's a chemical imbalance, and if I get the right
drugs for it, I'll be fine.” I looked around the office at
the names of the right drugs. If I got prescribed every
drug that Dr. Barney repped, I'd be like an old man
counting out pills every morning.
“You're in high school, correct?”
“Yes.”
“And your sister?”
“Fourth grade.”
“You realize there are a lot of parental consent forms
that need to be filled out for us to help you—”
“They'll sign everything. They want me to get better.”
“Supportive family environment,” Dr. Booth scratched
on his pad. He turned and gave his version of a smile,
which was a slight affirmative, the lips barely curled,
the lower lip out in front.
“We're going to get through this, Craig. Now, from a
personal standpoint, why do you think you have this
depression?”
“I can't compete at school,” I said. “All the other kids
are too much smarter.”
“What's the name of your high school?”
“Executive Pre-Professional High School.”
“Right. I've heard of it. Lots of homework.”
“Yeah. When I come home from school, I know I have
all this work to do, but then my head starts the
Cycling.”
“The Cycling.'”
“Going over the same thoughts over and over. When
my thoughts race against each other in a circle.”
“Suicidal thoughts?”
“No, just thoughts of what I have to do. Homework.
And it comes up to my brain and I look at it and think
‘I'm not going to be able to do that'and then it cycles
back down and the next one comes up. And then things
come up like ‘You should be doing more extracurricular
activities'because I should, I don't do near enough, and
that gets pushed down and it's replaced with the big
one: ‘What college are you going to, Craig?'which is
like the doomsday question because I'm not going to
get into a good one.”
“What would a good one be?”
“Harvard. Yale. Duh.”
“Uh-huh.”
“And then the thoughts keep turning and I lie down on
my bed and think them. And I used to not be able to lie
down anywhere; I used to always be up doing
something, but once the Cycling starts I can waste
hours, just lying and looking at the ceiling, and time
goes slowly and really fast at the same time—and then
it's midnight and I have to go to sleep because no
matter what I do, I have to be at school the next day. I
can't let them know what's happening to me.”
“Do you have difficulty sleeping?”
“Sometimes not. When I do it's bad, though. I lie there
thinking about how everything I've done is a failure,
death and failure, and there's no hope for me except
being homeless, because I'm never going to be able to
hold a job because everyone else is so much smarter.”
“But they're not all, are they, Craig? Some of them
have to be not as smart as you.”
“Well, those are the ones who I don't have to worry
about! But plenty of people are, and they're going to
kick my ass everywhere. Like my friend Aaron—”
“Who's that?”
“My best friend. He has a girlfriend too, who I'm
friends with.”
“How do you feel about her?”
“Not so much . . . one way or the other.”
“Uh-huh.” Dr. Barney wrote on his pad.
“Anyway . . ."I tried to sum up. I was lying to this guy;
that meant we really knew each other. “It's all about
living a sustainable life. I don't think I'm going to be
able to have one.”
“A sustainable life.”
“That's right, with a real job and a real house and
everything.”
“And a family?”
“Of course! You have to have that. What kind of
success are you if you don't have that?”
“Uh-huh.”
“So to have that I have to start shaping up now, but I
can't because of this crap that's going on in my head.
And I know that these things I'm thinking don't make
sense and I think ‘Stop!'”
“But you can't stop.”
“I can't stop.”
“Well.” He tapped his Prozac pen. “You know that your
thoughts aren't thoughts you want to have. That's a
good thing.”
“Yeah.”
“Do you ever hear voices?”
Uh-oh. Now we were getting into the real meat. Dr.
Barney was cuddly enough, but I was sure that if you
gave him a straitjacket he'd be able to handle it just
fine, coaxing you into it and leading you to a very
comfortable room with soft walls and a bench where
you could sit looking at a one-way mirror and telling 
people you were Scrooge McDuck. (How did they
make one-way mirrors, anyway?) I knew I had
problems, but I also knew I wasn't crazy. I wasn't
schizo. I didn't hear voices. Well, I heard that one
voice, the army guy, but that was my voice, just me
trying to motivate myself. I was not going to get thrown
in the loony bin.
“No voices,” I said. Lied, technically. Lied again.
“Craig, do you know about brain chemistry?”
I nodded. I'd skipped ahead in the bio textbook.
“Do you know how depression works?”
“Yeah.” It was a simple explanation. “You have these
chemicals in your brain that carry messages from each
brain cell to the next brain cell. They're called
neurotransmitters. And one of them is serotonin.”
“Excellent.”
“Which scientists think is the neurotransmitter related
to depression … If you have a lack of this chemical in
your system, you can start to get depressed.”
Dr. Barney nodded.
“Now,” I kept on, “after the serotonin passes a message
from one brain cell to the next, it gets sucked back into
the first brain cell to be used again. But the problem is 
sometimes your brain cells do too much sucking"—I
chuckled—"and they don't leave enough serotonin in
your system to carry the messages. So they have these
drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors that
keep your brain from taking too much serotonin back to
get more of it in your system. So you feel better.”
“Craig, excellent! You know a lot. We're going to put
you on medication that is going to do just that.”
“Great.”
“Before I write a prescription, do you have any
questions for me?”
Sure I did. Dr. Barney looked happy. He had a nice gold
ring and shiny glasses.
“How'd you get started in this?” I asked. “I'm always
interested to know how people got started.”
He leaned forward, his paunch disappearing in his
shadow. He had huge gray eyebrows and a somber face.
“After college, I went through my own shit and decided
that all the physical suffering in the world couldn't
compare to mental anguish,” he said. “And when I got
myself cleared up, I decided to help other people.”
“You got yours cleared up?”
“I did.”
“What did you have?”
He sighed. “What you have.”
“Yeah?”
“To a tee.”
I leaned forward—our faces were two feet away from
one another. “How did you fix it?” I begged.
He tilted the side of his mouth up. “Same way you will.
On my own.”
What? What kind of answer was that? I scowled at him.
I was here for help; I wasn't here to figure this out on
my own; if I wanted to figure it out on my own I'd be
taking a bus tour of Mexico—
“We're going to start you on Zoloft,” Dr. Barney said.
“What's the name of your high school?”
“Executive Pre-Professional High School.”
“Right. I've heard of it. Lots of homework.”
“Yeah. When I come home from school, I know I have
all this work to do, but then my head starts the
Cycling.”
“The Cycling.'”
“Going over the same thoughts over and over. When
my thoughts race against each other in a circle.”
“Suicidal thoughts?”
“No, just thoughts of what I have to do. Homework.
And it comes up to my brain and I look at it and think
‘I'm not going to be able to do that'and then it cycles
back down and the next one comes up. And then things
come up like ‘You should be doing more extracurricular
activities'because I should, I don't do near enough, and
that gets pushed down and it's replaced with the big
one: ‘What college are you going to, Craig?'which is
like the doomsday question because I'm not going to
get into a good one.”
“What would a good one be?”
“Harvard. Yale. Duh.”
“Uh-huh.”
“And then the thoughts keep turning and I lie down on
my bed and think them. And I used to not be able to lie
down anywhere; I used to always be up doing
something, but once the Cycling starts I can waste
hours, just lying and looking at the ceiling, and time
goes slowly and really fast at the same time—and then
it's midnight and I have to go to sleep because no
matter what I do, I have to be at school the next day. I
can't let them know what's happening to me.”
“Do you have difficulty sleeping?”
“Sometimes not. When I do it's bad, though. I lie there
thinking about how everything I've done is a failure,
death and failure, and there's no hope for me except
being homeless, because I'm never going to be able to
hold a job because everyone else is so much smarter.”
“But they're not all, are they, Craig? Some of them
have to be not as smart as you.”
“Well, those are the ones who I don't have to worry
about! But plenty of people are, and they're going to
kick my ass everywhere. Like my friend Aaron—”
“Who's that?”
“My best friend. He has a girlfriend too, who I'm
friends with.”
“How do you feel about her?”
“Not so much . . . one way or the other.”
“Uh-huh.” Dr. Barney wrote on his pad.
“Anyway . . ."I tried to sum up. I was lying to this guy;
that meant we really knew each other. “It's all about
living a sustainable life. I don't think I'm going to be
able to have one.”
“A sustainable life.”
“That's right, with a real job and a real house and
everything.”
“And a family?”
“Of course! You have to have that. What kind of
success are you if you don't have that?”
“Uh-huh.”
“So to have that I have to start shaping up now, but I
can't because of this crap that's going on in my head.
And I know that these things I'm thinking don't make
sense and I think ‘Stop!'”
“But you can't stop.”
“I can't stop.”
“Well.” He tapped his Prozac pen. “You know that your
thoughts aren't thoughts you want to have. That's a
good thing.”
“Yeah.”
“Do you ever hear voices?”
Uh-oh. Now we were getting into the real meat. Dr.
Barney was cuddly enough, but I was sure that if you
gave him a straitjacket he'd be able to handle it just
fine, coaxing you into it and leading you to a very
comfortable room with soft walls and a bench where
you could sit looking at a one-way mirror and telling 
people you were Scrooge McDuck. (How did they
make one-way mirrors, anyway?) I knew I had
problems, but I also knew I wasn't crazy. I wasn't
schizo. I didn't hear voices. Well, I heard that one
voice, the army guy, but that was my voice, just me
trying to motivate myself. I was not going to get thrown
in the loony bin.
“No voices,” I said. Lied, technically. Lied again.
“Craig, do you know about brain chemistry?”
I nodded. I'd skipped ahead in the bio textbook.
“Do you know how depression works?”
“Yeah.” It was a simple explanation. “You have these
chemicals in your brain that carry messages from each
brain cell to the next brain cell. They're called
neurotransmitters. And one of them is serotonin.”
“Excellent.”
“Which scientists think is the neurotransmitter related
to depression … If you have a lack of this chemical in
your system, you can start to get depressed.”
Dr. Barney nodded.
“Now,” I kept on, “after the serotonin passes a message
from one brain cell to the next, it gets sucked back into
the first brain cell to be used again. But the problem is 
sometimes your brain cells do too much sucking"—I
chuckled—"and they don't leave enough serotonin in
your system to carry the messages. So they have these
drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors that
keep your brain from taking too much serotonin back to
get more of it in your system. So you feel better.”
“Craig, excellent! You know a lot. We're going to put
you on medication that is going to do just that.”
“Great.”
“Before I write a prescription, do you have any
questions for me?”
Sure I did. Dr. Barney looked happy. He had a nice gold
ring and shiny glasses.
“How'd you get started in this?” I asked. “I'm always
interested to know how people got started.”
He leaned forward, his paunch disappearing in his
shadow. He had huge gray eyebrows and a somber face.
“After college, I went through my own shit and decided
that all the physical suffering in the world couldn't
compare to mental anguish,” he said. “And when I got
myself cleared up, I decided to help other people.”
“You got yours cleared up?”
“I did.”
“What did you have?”
He sighed. “What you have.”
“Yeah?”
“To a tee.”
I leaned forward—our faces were two feet away from
one another. “How did you fix it?” I begged.
He tilted the side of his mouth up. “Same way you will.
On my own.”
What? What kind of answer was that? I scowled at him.
I was here for help; I wasn't here to figure this out on
my own; if I wanted to figure it out on my own I'd be
taking a bus tour of Mexico—
“We're going to start you on Zoloft,” Dr. Barney said.
O-ho?
“It's a great medication; helps a lot of people. It's an
SSRI, it's going to affect the serotonin in your brain
like you said, but you can't expect an instant effect
because it takes weeks to get into your system.”
“Weeks?”
“Three to four weeks.”
“Isn't there a fast-acting version?”
“You take the Zoloft with food, once a day. We'll start
you on fifty milligrams. The pills make you feel dizzy,
but that's the only side effect, except for sexual side
effects.” Dr. Barney looked up from his pad. “Are you
sexually active?”
Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. “No.”
“All right. Also, Craig: I think that you would benefit
from seeing someone.”
“I know! Don't think I haven't tried. I'm not really
good at talking to girls.”
“Girls? No. I meant therapists. You should start seeing
a therapist.”
“What about you?”
“I'm a psychopharmacologist. I refer you to the
therapists.”
What a racket. “Okay.”
“Let's take a look for one.” He opened up what looked
like the white pages on his desk and started rattling off
names and addresses to me as if they made a difference.
Dr. Abrams in Brooklyn, Dr. Fieldstone in Manhattan,
Dr. Bok in Manhattan … I thought Dr. Bok was a cool
name, so we set up an appointment with him—I missed
it, though, because later in the week I was doing a
history assignment, and I was so embarrassed that I 
didn't call to cancel with Dr. Bok that I never went to
see him again. The next time with Dr. Barney we had to
pick another shrink, and then another, and then another,
among them the little old lady who asked if I had been
sexually abused and the beautiful redhead who asked
why I had so many problems with women and the man
with the handlebar mustache who suggested hypnosis.
It was like I was dating, except I didn't get to make out
with any of the girls—and I was also bi because I met
up with guys.
“I like talking to you,” I told Dr. Barney.
“Well, you'll be seeing me in a month, to check up on
how the medication is treating you.”
“You don't do therapy?”
“The other doctors are great, Craig; they'll help.”
Dr. Barney stood up—he was about five-foot-five—and
shook my hand with a soft, meaty grip. He handed me
the Zoloft prescription and instructed me to get it right
away, which I did, even before taking the subway
home.
Chapter Thirteen
The Zoloft worked, and it didn't take weeks—it worked
as soon as I took it that first day. I don't know how, but
suddenly I felt good about my life— what the hell? I
was a kid; I had plenty more to do; I'd been through
some crap but I was learning from it. These pills were
going to bring me back to my old self, able to tackle
everything, functional and efficient. I'd be talking to
girls in school and telling them that I was messed up,
that I had had problems but that I'd dealt with them, and
they'd think I was brave and sexy and ask me to call
them.
It must have been a placebo effect, but it was a great
placebo effect. If placebo effects were this good, they
should just make placebos the way to treat depression—
maybe that's what they did; maybe Zoloft was
cornstarch. My brain said yes I am back and I thought
the whole thing was over.
This was my first experience with a Fake Shift.
Dastardly stuff—you do well on a test; you make a girl
laugh; you have a particularly lower-body-simmering
experience after talking online and rushing to the
bathroom; you think it's all over. That just makes it 
worse when you wake up the next day and it's back
with a vengeance to show you who's boss.
“I feel great!” I told Mom when I got home.
“What did the doctor say?”
“I'm on Zoloft!” I showed her the bottle.
“Huh. A lot of people at my office take this.”
“I think it's working!”
“It can't be working already, honey. Calm down.”
I took my Zoloft every day. Some days I woke up and
got out of bed and brushed my teeth like any normal
human being; some days I woke up and lay in bed and
looked at the ceiling and wondered what the hell the
point was of getting out of bed and brushing my teeth
like any normal human being. But I always managed to
take it. I never tried to take more than one, either; it
wasn't that kind of drug. It didn't make you feel
anything, but then after a month, just like they said, I
started to feel that there was a buoy keeping me upright
when I got bad. If the Cycling started there was a panic
button attached to my good thoughts; 1 could click it
and think about my family, my sister, my friends, my
time online; the good teachers at school—the Anchors.
I even spent time with Sarah. She was so smart, smarter
than me for sure. She'd be able to handle what I was 
going through without seeing any doctors. Her
homework bordered on algebra even though it was only
fourth grade, and I helped her with it, sometimes
doodling spirals or patterns on the side of the pages
while she worked. I didn't do maps anymore.
“Those are cool, Craig,” she would say.
“Thanks.”
“Why don't you do art more?”
“I don't have time.”
“Silly. You always have time.”
“Oh yeah.”
“Yes. Time is a person-made concept.”
“Really? Where'd you hear that?”
“I made it up.”
“I don't know if that's true. We all live within time. It
rules us.”
“I use my time how I want, so I rule it.”
“You should be a philosopher, Sarah.”
“Uggg, no. What's that? Interior design.”
My eating came back around: first coffee yogurt, then
bagels, then chicken. Sleeping, meanwhile, was two-
steps-forward, one-step-back. (That's one of the golden
rules of psychology: the shrinks say that everything in
our lives is two-steps-forward, one-step-back, to justify
that time you, say, drank paint thinner and tried to
throw yourself off a roof. That was just taking a step
back.) Some nights I wouldn't sleep, but then for the
next two I slept great. I even dreamed: flying dreams,
dreams of meeting Nia on a bus and talking with her,
looking at her, seeing her off a few stops down the line.
(Never having sex with her, unfortunately.) Dreams that
I was I jumping off a bridge and landing on giant fuzzy
dice, bouncing across the Hudson River from
Manhattan to New Jersey, laughing and looking back at
which numbers I had landed on.
When I couldn't sleep, though, it sucked. I'd think
about the fact that my parents weren't going to leave me
much money and they might not have enough to send
my sister to college and I had a history assignment to do
and how come I didn't go to the library today and I
hadn't checked my e-mail in days—what was I missing
in there? Why did I fret so much about e-mail? Why
was I sweating into the pillow? It wasn't hot. How
come I had smoked pot and jerked off today?—I had
developed a rule: on the days you jerk off you don't
smoke pot and on the days you smoke pot you don't
jerk off, because the days you do both are the ones that
become truly wasted days, days where you take three
steps back.
I started to work in phases a little bit. For three weeks
I'd be cool, fine, functional. Even at my most
functional, I wasn't someone you'd pay a lot of
attention to; you wouldn't see me in the halls at school
and go “There he goes, Craig Gilner—I wonder what
he's up to.” You'd see me and go, “What does that
poster say behind that guy—is the anime club meeting
today?” But I was there, that was the important thing. I
was at school as opposed to home in my bed.
Then I'd get bad. Usually it happened after a chill
session at Aaron's house, one of those glorious times
when we got really high and watched a really bad
movie, something with Will Smith where we could
point out all the product placements and plot holes. I'd
wake up on the couch in Aaron's living room (I would
sleep there while he slept with Nia in the back) and I'd
want to die. I'd feel wasted and burnt, having wasted
my time and my body and my energy and my words
and my soul. I'd feel like I had to get home right now to
do work but didn't have the ability to get to the subway.
I'd just lie here for five more minutes. Now five more.
Now five more. Aaron would eventually get up and I'd
pee and force myself to interact with him, to get
breakfast and hold down a few bites. Nia would ask me
“You all right, man?” and one Saturday morning, while
Aaron was out getting coffee, I told her no.
“What's wrong?”
I sighed. “I got really depressed this year. I'm on
medication.”
“Craig. Oh my gosh. I'm so sorry.” She came over and
hugged me with her little body. “I know what it's like.”
“You do?” I hugged back. I'm not a crier; I just look it;
I'm a hugger. Cheesy, I know. I held the hug as long as
I could before it got awkward.
“Yeah. I'm on Prozac.”
“No way!” I pulled back from her. “You should have
told me!”
“You should have told me! We're like partners in
illness!”
“We're the illest!” I got up.
“What are you on?” she asked.
“Zoloft.”
“That's for wimps.” She stuck her tongue out. She had
a ring. “The really messed-up people are on Prozac.”
“Do you see a therapist?” I wanted to say “shrink,” but
it sounded funny out loud.
“Twice a week!” She smiled.
“Jesus. What is wrong with us?”
“I don't know.” She started dancing. There wasn't any
music on, but when Nia wanted to dance, she danced.
“We're just part of that messed-up generation of
American kids who are on drugs all the time.”
“I don't think so. I don't think we're any more messed
up than anybody before.”
“Craig, like eighty percent of the people I know are on
medication. For ADD or whatever.”
I knew too, but I didn't like to think about that. Maybe
it was stupid and solipsistic, but I liked to think about
me. I didn't want to be part of some trend. I wasn't
doing this for a fashion statement.
“I don't know if they really need it,” I said. “I really
need it.”
“You think you're the only one?”
“Not that I'm the only one … just that it's a personal
thing.”
“Okay, fine, Craig.” She stopped dancing. “I won't
mention it, then.”
“What?”
“Jesus. You know why you're messed up? It's because
you don't have a connection with other people.”
“That's not true.”
“Here I am, I just told you I have the same problem as
you—”
“It might not be the same.” I had no idea what Nia had;
she might have manic-depression. Manic-depression
was much cooler than actual depression, because you
got the manic parts. I read that they rocked. It was so
unfair.
“See? This is what I mean. You put these walls up.”
“What walls?”
“How many people have you told that you're
depressed?”
“My mom. My dad. My sisters. Doctors.”
“What about Aaron?”
“He doesn't need to know. How many people have you
told?”
“Of course Aaron needs to know! He's your best
friend!”
I looked at her.
“I think Aaron has a lot of problems too, Craig.” Nia sat
down next to me. “I think he could really benefit from
going on some medication, but he'd never admit it.
Maybe if you told him, he would.”
“Have you told him?”
“No.”
“See? Anyway, we know each other too well.”
“Who? Me and you? Or you and Aaron?”
“Maybe all of us.”
“I don't think so. I'm glad I know you, and I'm glad I
know him. You can call me, you know, if you're feeling
down.”
“Thanks. I actually don't have your new number.”
“Here.”
And she gave it to me, a magical number: I put it with
her name in all caps on my phone. This is a girl who
can save me, I thought. The therapists told you that you
needed to find happiness within yourself before you got
it from another person, but I had a feeling that if Aaron
were off the face of the earth and I was the one holding
Nia at night and breathing on her, I'd be pretty happy.
We both would be.
At home I got through the bad episodes by lying on the
couch and drinking water brought from my parents,
turning the electric blanket on to get warm and sweating
it out. I wanted to tell people, “My depression is acting
up today” as an excuse for not seeing them, but I never 
managed to pull it off. It would have been hilarious.
After a few days I'd get up off the couch and return to
the Craig who didn't need to make excuses for himself.
Around those times, I would call Nia to tell her I was
feeling better and she would tell me she was feeling
good too; maybe we were in synch. And I told her not
to tease me. And she would smile over the phone and
say, “But I'm so good at it.”
In March, as I had eight pills left of my final refill, I
started thinking that I didn't need the Zoloft anymore.
I was better. Okay, maybe I wasn't better, but I was
okay—it was a weird feeling, a lack of weight in my
head. I had caught up in my classes. I had found Dr.
Minerva—the sixth one that Dr. Barney and I tried—
and found her quiet, no-nonsense attitude amenable to
my issues. I was still getting 93's, but what the hell,
someone had to get them.
What was I doing taking pills? I had just had a little
problem and freaked out and needed some time to
adjust. Anyone could have a problem starting a new
school. I probably never needed to go to a doctor in the
first place. What, because I threw up? I wasn't throwing
up anymore. Some days I wouldn't eat, but back in
Biblical times people did that all the time—fasting was
a big part of religion, Mom told me. We were already
so fat in America; did I need to be part of the problem?
So when I ran out of the final bottle of Zoloft, I didn't
take any more. I didn't call Dr. Barney either. I just
threw the bottle away and said Okay, if I ever feel bad
again, I'll remember how good I felt that night on the
Brooklyn Bridge. Pills were for wimps, and this was
over; I was done; I was back to me.
But things come full circle, baby, and two months later
I was back in my bathroom, bowing to the toilet in the
dark.
Chapter Fourteen
My parents are outside hearing me retch up the dinner I
just ate with them. I look at the door; I think I can hear
Dad chewing the last bite he took when he got up from
the table.
“Craig, should we call someone?” Mom asks. “Is it an
emergency?”
“No,” I say, getting up. “I'm going to be all right.”
“Um, hey, yeah, I told your mom not to make the
squash,” Dad jokes.
“Heh,” I say, climbing to the sink. I wash out my mouth
with water and then mouthwash and then more water.
My parents pepper me with questions.
“Do you want us to call Dr. Barney?”
“Do you want us to call Dr. Minerva?”
“Do you want some tea?”
“Tea? Give the man some water. You want water?”
I turn on the light—
“Oh. He had the light off. Are you okay, Craig? Did
you slip?”
I look at myself in the bathroom light. Yes, I'm okay.
I'm okay because I have a plan and a solution: I'm
going to kill myself.
I'm going to do it tonight. This is such a farce, this
whole thing. I thought I was better and I'm not better. I
tried to get stable and I can't get stable. I tried to turn
the corner and there aren't any corners; I can't eat; I
can't sleep; I'm just wasting resources.
It's going to be tough on my parents. So tough. And my
little sister. Such a beautiful, smart girl. Not a dud like
me, that's for sure. It'll be hard to leave her. Not to
mention it might mess her up. Plus my parents will
think they're such failures. They'll blame themselves.
It'll be the most important event in their lives, the thing
that gets whispered by other parents at parties when
their backs are turned:
Did you hear about their son?
Teen suicide.
They'll never get over it.
I don't know how anyone could.
They must not've known the warning signs.
But you know what, it's time for me to stop putting
other people's emotions ahead of my own. It's time for
me to be true to myself, like the pop stars say. And my
true self wants to blast off this rock.
I'll do it tonight. Late tonight. In the morning,
specifically. I'll get up and bike to the Brooklyn Bridge
and throw myself off it.
Before I go, though, I'll sleep in Mom's bed for one
final night. She lets me sleep there when I'm feeling
bad, even though I'm too old—Dad'll sleep in the
living room. There's plenty of space by her, and it's not
like we touch or anything; she's just available to bring
me warm milk and cereal. Tonight is something I owe
her; her only son spending time with her before he goes.
I'd be heartless not to. I'll hug my dad too, and my
sister. But I'm not leaving any notes. What kind of crap
is that?
“I'm okay,” I say, unlocking the bathroom door and
stepping out. My parents corner me in a hug that
mimics the one at Aaron's blowout party, when we
were confirming that our futures were bright.
“We love you, Craig,” Mom says.
“This is true,” Dad says.
“Uh,” I say.
With Dr. Minerva I talk about my Tentacles and
Anchors. Here's something for you, Doctor: my parents
are now part of the Tentacles, and my friends too. My
Tentacles have Tentacles, and I'm never going to cut
them off. But my Anchor, that's easy: it's killing
myself. That's what gets me through the day. Knowing
that I could do it. That I'm strong enough to do it and I
can get it done.
“Can I sleep in your bed tonight?” I ask Mom.
“Sure, honey, of course.”
Dad nods at me.
“I'm ready for bed, then.” I go into my room and pull
out clothes to sleep in, stash another pile to die in. I'll
get them when I leave in the morning. Mom announces
that she's making some warm milk and it'll help me
sleep. I go to my sister's room. She's up, sketching a
kitchen at her desk.
“I love ya, little girl,” I tell her.
“Are you okay?” she responds.
“Yeah.”
“You threw up.”
“You heard?”
“It was like eccccccchhhh reeccccccch blacccchhh, of
course I heard.”
“I turned the water on!”
“I have good ears.” She points to her ears.
“You do good throw-up impressions, too,” I say.
“Yeah.” She turns back to her sketch. “Maybe when I
grow up I could be like a stand-up comedian, and just
get onstage and make those noises.”
“No,” I say, “what you could do, or what I could do,
since I'm so good at it, is get up onstage and actually
throw up, and people would pay to watch, like I was a
professional vomit-er.”
“Craig, that is so gross.”
But I don't think it's gross. I think it's kind of a good
idea. How does performance art get started, after all?
Don't let that distract you, soldier.
Right, I won't.
You've made your decision and you're sticking to it, is
that correct?
Yes, sir.
The point of you being in this room is to say good-bye
to your sister, is that not right?
Absolutely, sir.
I'm sorry to see it come to this, soldier. I thought you
had promise. But you gotta do what you gotta do, and
sometimes you gotta commit hara-kiri, ya know?
Yes, sir.
I hug Sarah. “You're very sweet and smart, and you
have great ideas. Stick with them.”
“Of course.” She looks at me. “What's wrong with
you?”
“I'm okay.”
“You're bad. Don't try and fool me.”
“I'll be all right tomorrow.”
“Okay. You like my kitchen?”
She holds it up. It's practically a blueprint, with the
swinging quarter-circles for doors and the sink and
refrigerator outlined in crisp, bird's-eye detail. It looks
like something someone would pay for.
“It's amazing, Sarah.”
“Thanks. What are you doing now?”
“I'm going to sleep early.”
“Feel better.”
I leave her room. Mom already has the warm milk for
me and my place all set up in her bed.
“You feeling better?”
“Sure.”
“Are you really, Craig?”
“Yes, jeez, sure.”
“Lean back on the pillows.” I get in her bed—the
mattress is firm and real. I scrunch my feet under the
covers and savor that feeling—fresh linen over your
feet, bunching up in little mountain ranges. That's a
feeling everyone can enjoy. Mom hands me the milk.
“It's only nine o'clock, Craig; you're not going to be
able to go to sleep.”
“I'll read.”
“Good. Tomorrow we'll schedule something with Dr.
Barney to help you. Maybe you need new medicine.”
“Maybe.”
I sit and drink the warm milk and think nothing. It's a
talent I've developed—one thing I've learned recently.
How to think nothing. Here's the trick: don't have any
interest in the world around you, don't have any hope
for the future, and be warm.
Damn, though. There's someone else I should call. I
pick the cell out of my pocket and flip it open to the
name that's all caps. I hit SEND.
“Nia?” I ask when she picks up.
“Hi, yeah, what's up?”
“I wanted to talk to you.”
“What about?”
I sigh.
“Ohhhh. Are you okay, man?”
“No.”
“Where are you?”
“At home. I'm in my mom's bed, actually.”
“Whoa, we have bigger problems than we thought,
Craig.”
“No! I'm just here because it helps me sleep. Don't you
remember when you were a little kid, sleeping in your
parents bed was like, such a treat?”
“Well, my dad died when I was three.”
Shoot. That's right. Some of us have actual things to
complain about.
“Right, sorry, um, I—”
“It's okay. I slept with my mom sometimes.”
“But you probably don't anymore.”
“No, I do. Same situations as you, I bet.”
“Huh. What are you up to now?”
“Home on the computer.”
“Where's Aaron?”
“Home on his computer. What do you want, Craig?”
I take a breath. “Nia, you remember the party that we
had when we all figured out we got into Executive PreProfessional?”
“Yeahhhh . . .”
“When you came to that party, did you know you were
going to hook up with Aaron?”
“Craig, we're not talking about this.”
“Please, c'mon, I have to know if I had a shot.”
“We're not.”
“Please. Pretend I'm dying.”
“God. You are so melodramatic.”
“Heh. Yeah.”
“I wore my green dress to that party, I remember that.”
“I remember too!”
“And Aaron was very nice to me.”
“He sat next to you in Scrabble.”
“And I already knew he liked me. But I had been
putting off getting involved with anyone until I knew
about high school, because I didn't want it to distract
me. And you and Aaron, you were like, in the running.
You both talked to me. But you had that mole on your
chin.”
“What?”
“Remember, the big hairy one? It was all pockmarked
and gross.”
“I didn't have any mole! “
“Craig, I'm joking.”
“Oh, right, duh.” We both laugh. Hers is full, mine
empty.
“You promise not to take this the wrong way, Craig?”
“Sure,” I lie.
“If you had made a move, I would probably have, you
know, gone along. But you didn't.”
Death.
“See, it works out, though. Now we're friends, and we
can talk about stuff like this.”
“Sure, we can talk.”
Death.“Believe me, I get sick of talking with Aaron.”
“Why?”
“He's always talking about himself and his problems.
Like you. You're both self-centered. Only, you have a
low opinion of yourself, so it's tolerable. He has a really
high opinion of himself. It's a pain.”
“Thanks, Nia, you're very sweet.”
“You know I try.”
“What if I tried now?” I ask. Nothing to lose.
“To what?”
“You know. What if I just came over and said screw it
and stayed outside until you came out and grabbed you
and kissed you?”
“Ha! You'd never do it.”
“What if I did?”
“I'd smap you.”
“You'd smap me.”
“Yeah. Remember that? That was so funny.”
I switch phones from ear to ear.
“Well, I just wanted to clear that up.” I smile. And
that's true. I don't want to leave loose ends. I want to
know where I stand. I don't stand anywhere with Nia,
really, not more than friends. I missed an opportunity
with her, but that's okay, I've missed many. I have a lot
of regrets.
“I'm worried about you, Craig,” she says.
“What?”
“Don't do anything stupid, okay?”
“I won't,” I tell her, and that's not a lie. What I'm doing
makes a lot of sense.
“Call me if you think you're going to do anything
stupid.”
“Bye, Nia,” I say. And I mouth into the phone, I love
you, in case some of her cells pick up on the vibrations
and it serves me well in the next life. If there is one. If
there is a next life, I hope it's in the past; I don't think
the future will be any more handleable.
“Bye, Craig.”
I click END. I think it's a little harsh how the END
button is red.

Chapter Fifteen
I'm pretty stupid for thinking I could get any sleep
tonight. Once I turn off the lights and put the cup aside,
I get the Not-Sleeping Feeling—it's kind of like feeling
the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse rear up in your
brain and put some ropes around it and pull it toward
the front of your skull. They say, No way, dude! Who
did you think you were fooling! You think you were
going to wake up at three in the morning and throw
yourself off the Brooklyn Bridge without staying up all
night? Give us a little credit!
My mind starts the Cycling. I know it's going to be the
worst that it's ever been. Over and over again, a cycling
of tasks, of failures, of problems. I'm young, but I'm
already screwing up my life. I'm smart but not
enough—just smart enough to have problems. Not
smart enough to get good grades. Not smart enough to
have a girlfriend. Girls think I'm weird. I don't like to
spend money. Every time I spend it, I feel as if I'm
being raped. I don't like to smoke pot, but then I do
smoke it and I get depressed. I haven't done enough
with my life. I don't play sports. I quit Tae Bo. I'm not
involved in any social causes. My one friend is a
screwup—a genius blessed with the most beautiful girl
in the world, and he doesn't even know it. There's so
much more for me to be doing. I should be a success 
and I'm not and other people—younger people— are.
Younger people than me are on TV and getting paid and
winning scholarships and getting their lives in order.
I'm still a nobody. When am I going to not be a
nobody?
The thoughts trail one another in my brain, running
from the back up to the front and dripping down again
under my chin: I'm no one; I'll never make it in my life;
I'm about to get revealed as a fake, I've already been
revealed as a fake but I don't know it yet; I know I'm a
fake and pretend not to. All the good thoughts—the
normal ones, the ones that have occasionally surfaced
since last fall— scramble out the front of my brain in
terror of what lives in my neck and spine. This is the
worst it'll ever be.
My homework swims in front of my closed eyes— the
Intro to Wall Street stock-picking game, the Inca
history paper, the ding-dong math test—they appear as
if on a gravestone. They'll all be over soon.
Mom climbs into bed next to me. That means it's still
early. Not even eleven. It's going to be such a long
night. Jordan, the dog who should be dead, climbs into
bed with her and I put my hand on him, try to feel his
warmth and take comfort from it. He barks at me.
I turn on my stomach. My sweat drenches my pillow. I
turn over on my back. It drenches it in the other 
direction. I turn on my side like a baby. Do babies
sweat? How about in the womb, do you sweat in there?
This night will never end. Mom stirs.
“Craig, are you still up?”
“Yes.”
“It's twelve-thirty. Do you want cereal? Some times a
bowl of cereal will just knock you out.”
“Sure.”
“Cheerios?”
I think I can handle Cheerios. Mom gets up and gets
them for me. The bowl is heaping and I tackle it with
the ferocity that I think a last meal deserves—shoving it
all in me as if it owes me loot. I'm not going to throw
this up.
Mom starts breathing regularly next to me. I start to
think practically about how I'm going to handle this.
I'm taking my bike, I know that. That's one thing I'll
miss: riding around Brooklyn on the weekends like a
maniac, dodging cars and trucks and vans with pipes
sticking out of them, meeting Ronny and then locking
the bikes up by the subway station to go to Aaron's
house. Riding a bike is pure and simple—Ronny says
he thinks it's mankind's greatest invention, and
although I thought that was stupid at first, these days 
I'm not so sure. Mom won't let me take the bike to
school so I've never ridden over a bridge—this'll be the
first time. I don't think I'll wear my helmet.
I'll take the bike, and it'll be a warm spring night. I'll
speed up Flatbush Avenue—the artery of fat
Brooklyn—right to the Brooklyn entrance of the bridge,
with the potholes and cops stationed all night. They
won't look at me twice—what, it's illegal, a kid biking
over a bridge? I'll go up the ramp and get right to the
middle, where I was before, and then I'll walk out over
the roadway and take one last look at the Verrazano
Bridge.
What am I going to do about my bike, though? If I lock
it up, it'll just stay there at the side of the bridge, as
evidence, and they'll clip the lock or saw through the
chain after a while. It's an expensive chain! But if I
don't lock it up, someone'll take it quickly—it's a good
bike, a Raleigh—and there won't be any evidence that I
was ever even there.
I can't lose the bike, I decide. I'll take the key with me
when I go down, and Mom and Dad will know, then,
where I've gone. The cops will find the bike and tell
them. It'll be harsh, but at least they'll know. It'll be
better than not leaving anything.
What time is it? Time has stopped for me. Since I can't
sleep and I'm still sweating, I decide I can try 
something to knock myself out: push-ups. I don't want
to go to sleep, I just want to exhaust myself and rest a
little bit so I can make the trip at the appropriate time,
in an hour or so. I prop myself up in bed in proper pushup position, which is also proper sex position, I realize,
and I haven't even had sex—I'm going to die a virgin.
Does that mean I go to heaven? No, according to the
Bible, suicide is a sin and I go straight to hell, what a
gyp.
I learned push-ups in Tae Bo. I'm good at them. I can
do them on my fingers and my fists, as well as my
palms. Here, next to my mom, in a scene that would
look very weird if you filmed it from the side, I start to
do them up and down—one, two, three … I move very,
very slowly so as not to wake Mom up—she's a heavy
sleeper and doesn't notice my exercises; her head is
turned in the opposite direction. When I get to ten pushups I start counting down: Five, four, three . . . until I
finish at fifteen. I collapse in bed.
I'm so weak from holding down nothing but Cheerios
in the last twenty-four hours, I'm beat. I'm cracked
from fifteen push-ups. But I feel something in the bed. I
feel my heart beating. It's beating against the mattress,
amplified, resounding not only in the bed but in my
body. I feel it in my feet, my legs, my stomach, my
arms. Beating everywhere.
I get on my palms again. One, two, three . . . My arms
burn. My neck crinks; a bed isn't the best place to do
push-ups; you tend to sink in. This set is tougher than
the last. But when I get to fifteen I keep going, to
twenty. I strain and hold back a grunt on the final one
and discharge myself to the mattress.
Badoom. Badoom. Badoom.
My heart is ramming now. It's beating everywhere. It
hits all the spots in my body, and I feel the blood
pressuring through me, my wrists, my fingers, my neck.
It wants to do this, to badoom away all the time. It's
such a silly little thing, the heart.
Badoom.
It feels good, the way it cleans me.
Badoom.
Screw it. I want my heart.
I want my heart but my brain is acting up.
I want to live but I want to die. What do I do?
I get out of bed, glance at the clock. It's 5:07. I don't
know how I got through the night. My heart radiates
badoom, so I stand and shuffle into the living room and
pick a book off my parents'shelf.
It's called How to Survive the Loss of a Love; it has a
pink and green cover. It's sold like two million copies;
it's one of these psychology books that people
everywhere buy to get through break-ups. My mom
bought it when her dad died and raved about how good
it was. She showed the cover to me.
I looked at it just to see what it was about, and the first
chapter said, “If you feel like harming yourself right
now, turn to page 20.” And I thought that was pretty
silly, like a Choose Your Own Adventure book, so I
turned to page 20, and right there it said to call your
local suicide hotline, because suicidal thoughts were a
medical situation and you needed medical help right
away.
Now, in the dark, I open How to Survive the Loss of a
Love to page 20.
“Every municipality has a suicide hotline, and they're
listed right in the government services section of the
yellow pages,” it says.
Okay. I go into the kitchen and open up the yellow
pages.
It's a pain in the ass to find those government listings. I
thought they were marked with green pages, but the
green pages turn out to be a restaurant guide. The
government listings are in blue at the front, but it's all
phone numbers for where to get your car if it's towed, 
what to do if your block has a rat problem . . . Ah, here,
health. Posion control, emergency, mental health. There
are a bunch of numbers. The first one says “suicide”
near it. It's a local number, and I call.
I stand in the living room with my hand in my pants as
the phone rings.
Chapter Sixteen
“Hello.”
“Hi, is this the Suicide Hotline?”
“This is the Brooklyn Anxiety Management Center.”
“Oh, um . . .”
“We work with the Samaritans. We handle New York
Suicide Hotline calls when they overflow. This is Keith
speaking.”
“So the Suicide Hotline is too busy right now?”
“Yes—it's Friday night. This is our busiest time.”
Great. I'm common even in suicide.
“What seems to, ah, be the problem?”
“I really, just… I'm very depressed and I want to kill
myself.”
“Uh-huh. What's your name?”
“Ah . . .” Need-a-fake-name, need-a-fake-name:
“Scott.”
“And how old are you, Scott?”
“Fifteen.”
“And why do you want to kill yourself?”
“I'm clinically depressed, you know. I mean, I'm not
just . . . down or whatever. I started this new school and
I can't handle it. It's gotten to a point where it's the
worst it's ever been and I just don't want to deal with it
anymore.”
“You say you're clinically depressed. Are you taking
medication?”
“I was taking Zoloft.”
“And what happened?”
“I stopped taking it.”
“Ah. That's probably, you know, a bad idea.”
Keith sounds like he's just getting started with this
whole counseling thing. I picture a thin college-age guy
with wire-rim glasses at a desk lit up with a small
reading lamp, looking out the window, nodding at the
good deeds he's doing.
“A lot of people run into problems when they, y'know,
stop taking their medication.”
“Well, whatever the reason, I just really can't handle it
right now.”
“Do you have a plan for how you would kill yourself?”
“Yes. I'd jump off the Brooklyn Bridge.”
I hear Keith typing something.
“Well, Scott, we aren't the suicide hotline, but if you
like, we have a five-step exercise for managing anxiety.
Would you like to try it?”
“Um . . . sure.”
“Can you get a pen and a piece of paper?”
I go to the drawers in the dining room and get a pencil
and paper. I take it to the bathroom and sit on the toilet
with Keith. The light's on.
“First, okay? Write down an event that happened to
you. That you experienced.”
“Any event?”
“That's right.”
“Okay …” I write on the piece of paper Ate pizza last
week.
“Do you have it?” Keith asks.
“Yes.”
“Now, write down, ah, how you felt about that event.”
“Okay.” I write: Felt good, full.
“Now write down any ‘shoulds'or ‘woulds'that you felt
about the event.”
“Like what?”
“Things that you regret about it, things that you feel
would have made it go better.”
“Wait, uh, I don't think I have the right kind of event.” I
furiously erase my first statement, which is marked I.
Instead of Ate pizza, I put down Threw up Mom's
squash and then for 2, I write Felt like I wanted to kill
myself, all the while telling Keith to hold on, I messed
up.
“Just put down ‘shoulds'and ‘woulds,'” he reassures
me.
Well, I should have held down the squash and I would
have been full if I had. I put that down.
“Now put down only what you actually had to do in the
event.”
“What I had to do?”
“Right. Because there are no such things as shoulds and
woulds in the universe.”
“There aren't?” I'm starting to suspect Keith a bit. For
someone in Anxiety Management, he's giving me an
exercise that is fairly confusing and anxiety-provoking.
“No,” he says. “There are only things that could have
turned out differently. You don't have any shoulds or
woulds in your life, see? You only have things that
could have gone a different way.”
“Ah.”
“You never know what truly would have happened if
you had done your shoulds and woulds. Your life might
have turned out worse, isn't that possible?”
“I don't see how it's really possible, seeing as I'm on
the phone with you.”
“What you really have in life are needs, and you only
have three needs: food, water, and shelter.”
And air, I think. And friends. And money. And your
mind.
“So the next step in the process is to put down only
what you actually had to do in your event, and then
compare it to the shoulds and woulds you assigned
yourself.”
“How many steps are in this thing?”
“Five. The fifth is the most important. We're at four.”
“You know, I really, um—” I look at the piece of paper,
covered with half-erased scribblings about pizza and 
squash. “—I think I should talk to the Suicide Hotline
people because I still feel really . . . bad.”
“All right,” Keith sighs.
I'm worried that he thinks he's done a bad job, so I tell
him: “It's okay. You've been really helpful.”
“It's tough with young people,” he says. “It's just
tough. Have you called 1-800-SUICIDE?”
1-800-SUICIDE! Of course! I should've known. This is
America. Everyone has a 1-800 number.
“That's Helpline, they're national. Then there's Local
Suicide Watch …” Keith gives another number.
“Thanks.” I write them both down. “Thanks so much.”
“You're welcome, Scott,” he says. I hit OFF— these are
the first calls I've made not on the cell phone in a long
time—and type in 1-800-SUICIDE.
It's really convenient that suicide has seven letters, I
think.
“Hello,” a woman answers.
“Hi, I …” I give her the rap, just like I gave Keith. This
woman's name is Maritsa.
“So you stopped taking your Zoloft?” she asks.
“Yes.”
“You know, you should be on that for … a couple
months, really.”
“I was on it for a couple months.”
“Some people stay on it for years. At least four to nine
months.”
“Well, I know, but I felt better.”
“Okay, so how do you feel right now?”
“I want to kill myself.”
“Okay, Scott, now, you know you're very young and
you sound very accomplished.”
“Thanks.”
“I know high school can be tough.”
“It's not that tough. I just can't handle it.”
“Are your parents aware of how you're feeling?”
“They know I'm bad. They're asleep right now.”
“Where are you?”
“I'm in the bathroom.”
“At your house?”
“Yes.”
“You live with them?”
“Yeah.”
“You know, when you want to commit suicide, we
consider that a medical emergency. Did you know
that?”
“Ah, an emergency.”
“If you feel like that, you need to go to the hospital,
okay?”
“I do?”
“Yes, you go right to the emergency room and they'll
take care of you. They know just how to handle it.”
The emergency room? I haven't been in the emergency
room since I got clipped by a sled and knocked myself
out in the park in grade school. Blood was coming out
of one ear, and when I woke up it was like I'd slept for
three days and I wasn't quite sure what year it was.
They kept me overnight, sent me through an MRI to
make sure my brain wasn't dented, and sent me home.
“Are you going to go to the emergency room, Scott?”
“Ah…”
“Would you like us to call 911 for you? If you're
unable to get to the emergency room, we can send an
ambulance for you.”
“No, no! That's not necessary.” I do not need the
neighbors seeing me carted off. Besides, I never
realized, but I'm right next to a hospital. It's two blocks
away—a tall gray building with big tanks of frozen
oxygen out front and construction vehicles constantly
adding new wings. Argenon Hospital. I can walk there
from here. It might even feel good. And once I get
there, I won't have to do anything. I'll just tell them
what's wrong with me and they'll give me medicine.
Probably they'll give me some kind of new pill—
maybe they've invented that fast-acting Zoloft by
now—and I'll come right back home. Mom and Dad
won't even know.
“Scott?”
“I'm going. I have to . . .”
“You have to put on your clothes?”
“Right.”
“That's great. That's wonderful. You're doing the right
thing.”
“Okay.”
“You're very young. We don't want to lose you. You're
being very strong right now.”
“Thanks.” I find my shoes. No, pants first. I put on my
khaki pants. The only shoes I can find are my dress 
shoes, worn to Dr. Minerva's office this afternoon, a
lifetime ago. They're Rockports, shiny and beveled.
“Are you still there?”
“Yeah, I'm just getting my hoodie.” I pull it off the
hook and flip it on. I grab the phone again.
“Okay.”
“You're very brave, Scott.”
“Thanks.”
“You're going to the hospital, right? What hospital?”
“Argenon.”
“They're wonderful there. I'm proud of you, Scott. This
is the right thing to do.”
“Thank you, Maritsa. Thank you.”
I hang up the phone and walk out the door. Jordan
comes toddling out just as I'm leaving, cocks his head
at me. He doesn't bark.
Chapter Seventeen
The emergency room is nearly abandoned at five-thirty
in the morning—I don't know how I caught that lucky
break. There's a long black metal bench sprinkled with
people. A Hispanic couple walks around, the woman
howling about her knee. An old white lady and her
gigantic son fill out forms next to each other. A black
guy with glasses sits at the end of the bench, opening
peanuts and putting the shells in his left vest pocket, the
peanuts in his right. It could be a plain-old doctor's
office, really. Except for the peanut guy.
I walk up to the main desk: REGISTRATION. There
are two registrat-ors, one sitting, and one standing
behind. The one behind looks about my age—she's
probably getting school credit.
“I need to be, uh, admitted. Registered,” I say.
“Fill out a form and the nurse will see you shortly,” the
sitting one says. The standing one stuffs envelopes,
eyes me. Do I know her from somewhere? I sniff my
armpit to hide my face.
I take the Xeroxed form that's handed to me. It asks my
birthdate and address, my parents'names and phone
numbers, my health insurance. I don't know much
about health insurance, but I know that my Social
Security number is my ID number, so I put that down. I
feel kind of good filling out the form, like I'm applying
to a special academy.
I put the form, completed, in a small black tray hanging
off the side of the registration desk. There's only one
piece of paper in front of mine; I sit back down next to
Peanut Man. I stare at the floor; it's made up of footlong tiles in red and white, like a chessboard, and I
imagine how a knight would move across it. I'm so
crazy. I've lost it. This isn't going to help. I should
leave. Is it too late? My bike is back at home in my
hallway. I can do it. I'm strong enough.
“Craig?” a woman pops her head out from a door at the
end of Registration.
I stand up. The Hispanic couple howls that they were
here first and someone comes out to talk to them in
Spanish. Sorry, people.
“Come,” she beckons. “I'm the nurse.”
I shake her hand.
“Have a seat.” I enter her long, thin chamber, which has
a computer and two chairs and an array of tubes and
robes on hooks on the wall. The sun is rising through a
window at the end of the room. Across from me is a
poster about domestic violence: If your man beats you,
forces you to have sex, controls your money, or
threatens you about immigration papers, you are a
victim!
The nurse—short with curly hair and a clownish face—
reaches to the hooks behind her and unfurls a blood
pressure gauge. I always liked these. Not that they're
pleasant, but they always feel like they could be so
much worse. She attaches it to some readout device and
pumps me up.
“So what's wrong, ishkabibbles?” she asks.
Ishkabibbles? I give her the rap.
“Did you do anything to yourself? Did you try and cut
yourself; did you try and hurt yourself; did you actually
go anywhere?”
“No. I called 1-800-SUICIDE and they sent me here.”
“Good. Wonderful. You did the right thing. They're so
great.”
She unwraps me, turns, and types information into the
computer. She reads off my sheet in a tray to the right
of the monitor, where I wrote “want to kill myself” as
my reason for admission.
“Now, were you on medicine?”
“Zoloft. I stopped taking it.”
“You stopped?” She opens her eyes wide. “We get that
a lot.” She types. “You really can't do that.”
“I know.” I'm glad I have a concrete thing to blame this
on, something everyone can point a finger at.
“You really have to stop, right now, and think about
how you feel. I want you to remember how you feel the
next time you decide to stop taking your medicine.”
“Okay.” I commit it to memory; I feel dead, wasted,
awful, broken, and useless. It's not the kind of feeling
you forget.
“You're going to be fine, ishkabibbles,” she says.
I look at what she's typing on the screen. Under “reason
for admission,” she puts SUICIDAL IDEATION.
That would be a good band name, I think.
“Come on,” she says, getting up from the computer.
Behind it, a printer is producing something, whining
and clicking. She reaches back and pulls two stickers
out, puts them on plastic bracelets that she has attached
to her belt, which is like a nurse utility belt, and affixes
them to my right wrist.
I look down. They both say Craig Gilner, and have my
Social Security number and a bar code on them.
“Why do I get two?” I ask.
“Because you're too special.”
She leads me out of the room into the ER proper, past
curtains that are alternately drawn and undrawn to show
the cast of characters here on an early Saturday
morning. The vast majority are old people—
specifically, old white women with tubes in them,
yelling and moaning. What they're yelling for is
water—“Waaa-taaa, waaa-taa”—and what they're
getting is totally ignored. Doctors—I think the doctors
are in white coats and the nurses are in blue, right?—
stride by holding clipboards. One has a young scruffy
blond beard that I would never expect to see on a
doctor—his name is Dr. Kepler. It says RESIDENT, so 
he's a college guy. That's one of the things I could be
someday if I hadn't messed up and gotten myself in
here.
“This way,” the nurse says.
Beeping serenades us. It's coming from every where, a
dozen different kind of beeps—loud ones, scary ones,
ding-y ones, random ones. I wonder if they ever sync up
as we pass by two giant metal racks on wheels—inside
are pale yellow trays wrapped in plastic. Hospital
breakfast. A nurse pushes them through a door marked
FOOD PREP.
We move by a group of Hispanic guys lounging on
stretchers who all look like they were in the same bar
fight. One has a bandage on his face, one is pointing to
his chest for a doctor, and one is rolling up his pants to
show off what looks like a shark bite. The doctor hisses
at him in Spanish, and he rolls his pants back down. We
go by a bank of computers and there the nurse tells me
to wait— she flags down an Indian doctor, and he takes
a stretcher, which up close looks like a very
complicated and expensive piece of machinery, with red
and black levers sticking out everywhere, into a side
room marked “22.”
Room 22 is just big enough to accommodate the
stretcher. It doesn't have a door, just a doorway. The
walls are yellow. The nurse leads me in there.
“A doctor will be with you shortly,” she says.
It's bright. Bright as hell. And I haven't slept. I sit on
the stretcher. What am I supposed to do in here?
There's nothing to do. There aren't even any hooks.
Outside of 22, a black guy with long dreads is on a
stretcher next to a curtain. He's well dressed in dark
brown—with black shoes like mine—and he's holding
his hip and writhing in pain. It's something I've never
seen except in movies—a man clutching himself and
grimacing and swaying and breathing in little huffs and
bearing his teeth and going “Nurse, nurse, please.” It
looks like he's dislocated his hip. He rolls over on his
side and then back on his back, but nothing seems to
help.
Who's worse, soldier, you or him?
Dunno, sir!
It's a trick question, soldier.
Well, him, obviously. 1 mean I'm sitting here lounging; he's practically dying out there.
I expected more from you, son.
How?
You're a smart kid. You should be able to see when
somebody's faking. And soldier—
Yes.
—Good job out there. I'm glad you're still on board.
I don't feel any better.
Life's not about feeling better; it's about getting the job
done.
I look again at the black guy; as I do, a big police
officer with closely cropped hair and those weird little
fat bumps on the back of his neck saunters onto the
scene with a newspaper and a cup of coffee. He takes an
orange plastic seat and sits down right outside from me,
between Room 22 and Room 21, another open-style,
closet-sized space.
“Hey, how ya doin',” he says. He speaks slowly and
calmly. “I'm Chris. If you need anything, let me know.”
He sits down and opens up his paper.
The black guy is really moaning now, bugging out his
eyes at every nurse that passes by. He grabs his hip with
both hands. Maybe he's a heroin addict. They come to
the hospital and pretend they're hurt to get morphine. I
watch him for minutes, trying to figure out if he's real
or fake. There aren't any clocks. There are only beeps.
Chris shakes his paper. Page two is “86 Stories Down:
Man Plunges from Empire State.”
“Jeez,” I say. I can't believe it. “Is that about a guy
jumping off the Empire State Building?”
“No.” Chris smiles, glancing at me over his shoulder.
“Not at all.” He flips the paper back over. “You're not
supposed to be looking at this.”
I chuckle. “That is too much.”
“He lived!” Chris says.
“Yeah, right.”
“He did! And you will too.”
Did someone tell this guy what I was in for? Or do all
people with mental difficulties get shuttled to room 22?
“What'd he do? Hit a tree?”
But Chris has moved on to page four. “Not supposed to
be looking at this.”
Someone must have told him. He's a cop in charge of
making sure things are okay in the ER and someone
must have told him they had a depressed kid in 22, and
now he's trying to be helpful.
I lie down on my stretcher, take my hoodie off, and
throw it over my face. It's not dark enough. I'm not
going to be able to sleep. I'm sweating. I want to do
push-ups, but I can't on the stretcher, and it's probably
a bad idea to do them on the tiled floor, which doesn't 
look recently mopped. I don't need to go into Argenon
Hospital for depression and come out with diphtheria.
“Nurse! Nurse! Please!” the black man groans.
“Waaa-taaa. Waaa-taaa,” a woman croaks.
“Hey, what's up?” Chris answers his phone. “No, I'm
on.”
Beep, something beeps.
These are the sounds of the hospital, the hospital, the
hospital.
“Hello, Craig?”
A doctor comes into 22. She has long, dark hair and a
pudgy face and bright green eyes.
“Hey.”
“I'm Dr. Data.”
“Dr. Data?”
“Yes.”
Huh. I want to ask her if she's an android, but that
wouldn't be very respectful; and besides, I'm not up to
it.
“What's going on?”
I give her the rap. It gets shorter every time. I wanted to
kill myself; I called the number; I came here. Blah blah
blah.
“You did the right thing,” she says, “A lot of people get
off their medication and get into big trouble.”
“That's what they tell me.”
“Now, besides wanting to jump off the Brooklyn
Bridge, have you had anything else going on? Have you
been seeing things? Hearing things?”
“Nope.” I'm not talking about the army guy. Same rules
as with Dr. Barney.
“Do your parents know you're here?”
“No.”
“Okay, well, let me tell you what we can do for you,
Craig.” She takes out her stethoscope, holds it in her
hands, and folds her short arms. She's pretty. Her eyes
are serious and beautiful. “It's Saturday, and on
Saturday our best psychologists are here, the really
good ones. I'm going to recommend that you see Dr.
Mahmoud. He'll be in soon, and he'll be able to give
you the help you need.”
I have a sudden vision of Dr. Mahmoud taking me into
his office, a special shrink's office within Argenon
Hospital. It must be very pleasant and bare. There's 
probably a black couch and a wide window and some
Picassos. He'll take me up there; we'll have some
emergency therapy; he'll give me the kind of trick that
Dr. Minerva has been unable to give me, effect the
Shift, re-prescribe me Zoloft (maybe that fast-acting
Zoloft!), and I'll be on my way.
“Sounds like a plan.”
“Now, you have to inform your parents about where
you are, because when Dr. Mahmoud comes down, he's
going to need them to sign for you.”
“Ohhhhh.”
“Is that going to be a problem?”
“No. I can do it.”
“Where are your parents?”
“Like two blocks away.”
“They're together? They're supportive?”
“Yeah.”
“Are they going to be okay that you're in here?”
I sigh. “Yes. I'm the one who's. .. not.”
“Don't worry, it happens to a lot of people. It tends to
be related to stress. Breathe for me, Craig.” She puts her
stethoscope by my back and has me take deep breaths, 
cough, the whole deal. She doesn't have to hold my
balls, which is cool, because there's no door.
I look out as she's examining me. The black guy has a
nurse leaning over him.
“Dr. Mahmoud will be down soon. Call your parents,
please, and make sure they're here within two hours.”
Two hours. Jeez. I've got to wait two more hours?
“Gotcha.”
Dr. Data nods at me. “We will help you.”
“Okay.” I try to smile.
She heads out. I figure that, with the parents, I should
get it over with as soon as possible. I flip open my cell
phone. No service in the emergency room. I walk out of
Room 22 to find a pay phone.
Chris rises from his chair.
“Buddy, hey, I told ya, ya gotta ask me for things. What
do you need?”
I turn and look at him, eye his badge and nightstick. I
realize what he is now. He's not there in general or for
the ER; he's there for my protection. When you come
into the hospital with a mental disability, they put a cop
next to you so you don't hurt yourself. I'm on like, 
suicide watch. You want to commit suicide, you call 1-
800-SUICIDE; you get suicide watch.
“Ahm, I have to call my mom.”
“Not a problem. Phones are right there. Dial nine.” He
nods.
The phones are like, three feet away. But Chris puts his
hands on his hips and keeps close watch as I pick up a
receiver.
Chapter Eighteen
Hi, Mom, I'm in the hospital? No.
Hey, mom, are you sitting down? Eh.
Mom, you're not going to believe where I'm calling
you from! Nah.
“Hey, Mom,” I say when I hear her groaned hello.
“How are you?”
“Craig! Where are you?! I just—you just woke me up
and you aren't in bed! Are you okay?”
“I'm okay.”
“Are you at Aaron's?”
“Uh …” I suck air through my teeth. “No, Mom. I'm
not at Aaron's.”
“Where are you?”
“I, uh … I really freaked out last night, and I was
feeling really bad, and I, um, I checked myself into
Argenon Hospital.”
“Oh, my goodness.” She stops, hitches her breath. I
hear her sit down, exhale. “You … are you okay?”
“Well, I mean—I wanted to kill myself.”
“Oh, Craig.” There's no crying, but I hear her put her
face in her hands.
“I'm sorry.”
“No. No! I'm sorry. I was sleeping! I didn't know!”
“Please, Mom, how could you know?”
“I knew you were bad, but I didn't realize. What did
you do? How did you get there?”
“Don't worry. I didn't do anything. I used your book.”
“What, the Bible?”
“No, your How to Deal with the Loss of a Love book.”
“Survive. How to Survive the Loss of a Love.
Wonderful book.”
“It recommended calling the suicide hotline number in
there, and I did.”
“Is that this sheet of paper by the phone?”
“Yeah, you can throw that away. They said, you know
… if I was feeling like I was in an emergency, I should
come to the emergency room, and I put on my shoes
and came here.”
“Oh, Craig, so you didn't do anything to yourself?” She
pauses.
“No, I checked myself in.”
I hear her breath catch and I think, in my house a few
blocks away, her hand is on her chest. “I am so proud of
you.”
“You are?”
“This is the bravest thing you've ever done.”
“I. . . thank you.”
“This is the most life-affirming thing you've ever done.
You made the right decision. I love you. You're my
only son and I love you. Please remember.”
“I love you too, Mom.”
“I thought I was a bad mother, but I'm a good mother if
I taught you how to handle yourself. You had the tools
to know what to do. That is so important. And they're
going to be great over there; it's an excellent hospital.
I'm coming right down—you want me to bring your
dad?”
“I don't know. It might be good to just have as few
people as possible, if possible.”
“Where are you now?”
“In the emergency room. They want you to sign some
forms.”
“Where are they taking you?”
“To talk with this doctor, Dr. Mahmoud.”
“And how are you feeling?”
“I don't know. Like the whole thing is unreal. I didn't
really get any sleep last night.”
“Oh, Craig—if I had known… I didn't know …”
I smile. “I love you, Mom. I have to go.” Chris is
looking at me.
“I love you. I'm so proud of you.”
I hang up. My mom seems happier about me getting
into the hospital than she was about me getting into
high school.
I turn to Chris and notice that the room next to him,
Room 21, is now occupied. A black guy is in there,
sitting up on a stretcher. He's bald, but not shaved-head
bald—old bald with thin white hairs in a halo around
him. His face is unshaven; his arms lie on his legs at
cross-purposes. He's skinny, in sweatpants and a white
T-shirt covered, from the neck down, with an
unidentifiable dark stain. He turns his head toward the
wall and I see a scar running from his ear down to his
neck. Then he turns back to me. The only thing you can
say for him is that he has all his teeth, and they're
white, and he's smiling.
I slink back into Room 22 and return to watching the
guy with the dreads. He's not writhing anymore;
apparently the nurse gave him what he needed, because
he's sitting up, eyes closed, pants rolled up to his knee,
scratching everything—his lower leg, chest, face—
mumbling and swaying. His scratches are light and
don't seem intended to actually relieve any sort of itch.
He rocks back and forth at a slow rhythm that fits in
with the beeps, and opens his eyes about a quarter of the
way every minute.
Maybe that should be me. If I were on drugs that good,
maybe I wouldn't have time to get depressed. It's
heroin, right? That's what I need: some heroin.
But I reconsider. First of all, it'd be pretty tough to ask
my friends: Hey, who knows where I can get heroin?
They'd think it was a joke. Plus it has the worst
nicknames: “horse,” right? How could I ask for “horse”
with a straight face? And, if I were doing heroin, then
I'd be a depressed teenager on heroin. I didn't need to
be that cliché.
“Want some breakfast?” Chris asks, and before I can
say no, one of the sad yellow trays is pushed in at me.
The tray has a half pint of what appears to be oatmeal, a
hardboiled egg squished into a lidded Styrofoam
container, a coffee (I can tell, because the lid is stained
with coffee), a foil-topped cuplet of orange juice, and a
piece of wheat bread individually sealed from the 
elements. Also a fork, spoon, knife, salt, pepper, sugar.
It disgusts me. I have no interest in any of it. But they
might be monitoring me, so I open the bread and force
myself to eat it strip by strip, chasing it with orange
juice. I ask one of the nurses for a tea and she brings me
another coffee. I sniff the coffee but it smells pretty
dangerous, so, just to annoy him, I offer some to Chris.
“Got my own,” he says, and holds up a popular
worldwide brand of coffee. It's strange to see brand
names in the hospital.
As Chris yaks on his cell phone (I'd like to know what
company gives you service in here; they could like, use
it on a commercial: a guy behind padded walls, “Can
you hear me now?"), Dr. Data comes back with forms
for me to sign about my age and residence. She also
brings forms to the older man next to me, the one in
Room 21.
“How're you doing, Jimmy?” she asks in there. She has
to talk very loud.
“I toldja: it come to ya!” he yells back in a succinct
Southern voice.
She makes a tsk tsk noise. “How'd you get back in here,
Jimmy? We didn't think we would see you for a long
time.”
“I, I, I woke up, and the bed was on fire.”
It's pretty clear at this point that Mom is going to be
late. She's probably trying to pack me an activity bag. I
should really get some sleep. I crash on the stretcher
with my hoodie draped dejectedly over my head, but
there are way too many thoughts in my brain. What am
I going to do? It's starting to hit me under there. I'm in
the hospital. I'm supposed to do stuff tonight. There's a
party—a big one—at Aaron's house. Am I going to be
able to go? And if I don't go, what will I say? And
what's the alternative? Will I stay home and try to work
but not be able to and end up with another sleepless
night? I can't have another sleepless night.
How do you know when you've hit bottom? Real
bottom involves being on the street, I think, not in a
hospital. But the Cycling is starting and I can't deal
with it and it feels like bottom. I sit up, throw the
hoodie off.
“Can I use the bathroom?” I ask Chris.
He leads me past the chatty Hispanic patients to a
chrome-and-tile bathroom that's probably seen some
bad action. He stays outside. I look around and muse at
how I would kill myself in here if I really needed to—
I'd have to crush my head in the toilet seat. Ouch. I
haven't even seen that in a horror movie. I look at the
toilet and decide to stand. I'm not going to sit down like
the world's beaten pup anymore. I stand, push hard,
wash my hands, and step out.
“Wow, that was quick,” says Chris.
We pass Jimmy in Room 21 on my way back. His
hands are still crossed in his lap as Dr. Data tries to ask
him questions.
“I tell you once: it the truth. You play that number, that
number will come to you!”
The guy with the dreads is still tripping out.
I lie down. A nurse comes with a cart that threatens to
have more food on it. She knocks—as if there were a
door—and says she has to take my heart rate. This
involves the placement, all over my body, of sticky tabs
attached to wires. They don't hurt; I have a feeling they
will when they come off, though. I turn to the cart as
she puts them on, and a metal arm like a record needle
is reading out my pulses. I watch it: a spike, then a
flatter spike, then a dip and a repeat. That's you. That's
your heart.
“All right,” the nurse says. She pulls the tabs off my
skin. They don't hurt—the adhesive is kind and soft.
My tabs hang off the cart like a tangle of roots as it rolls
away. I lie doing nothing for a second, then put my shirt
back on, then my hoodie. How long have I been here? I
open my phone. Two-and-a-half hours.
“Mr. Gilner?”
A man in a dark suit and a gray tie stands at the
entrance to my room. He almost completely occupies it;
he's large and barrel-shaped with a stately, pockmarked
face, gray hair, big eyebrows, and a firm handshake.
“I am Dr. Mahmoud, yes? You are feeling how? Why
are you here?”
I give him the rap.
“Are your parents here?”
“Urn, I called them but. . .”
“Here, okay, thanks!” I hear Mom's voice out in the
ER. I put my head in my hands.
“He's here? Twenty-two?”
Dr. Mahmoud steps aside, and there's Mom, trailed by
the nurse who let me in, with an overstuffed tote bag on
her left arm and Jordan in her right.
“Miss!” the nurse is yelling. “You really can't have
dogs in here!”
“What dog?” Mom asks, slipping Jordan into the tote
bag. He pokes his head up at me and barks, then dips
down.
Everyone in the ER is silent all of a sudden. Even the
cracked-out guy with dreads looks at my mom. Chris
approaches her; the nurse who let me in points to me—
“Wait a second,” says Dr. Mahmoud. “Mrs. Gilner?”
“Yes? Craig! Oh my gosh!”
Everyone lets her into Room 22. They fan out in a
three-person semicircle as she hugs me tight, the kind of
hug she used to give me when I was a five-year-old,
complete with swaying. Jordan grrrs at me.
“He had to come; he was making a fuss. I love you so
much,” Mom whispers into my ear, hot and full of
spittle.
“I know.” I hold her back.
“Mrs. Gilner—”
“She really needs to leave with the dog,” the nurse says.
“She has a dog? Dogs are against policy,” Chris says.
“Just one second,” Dr. Mahmoud says.
We all look at him.
“All right, Mrs. Gilner, since you're here, your son has
checked himself in due to suicidal ideation and acute
depression, you understand?”
“Yes.”
“He was on his Zoloft but he stopped taking it.”
“You did?” Mom turns to me.
“I thought I was better.” I shrug.
“Stubborn like your father. Yes, Doctor?”
“Well, the next question is for Craig. Craig, would you
like to be admitted?”
Admitted. That probably means to the special room
where I get to talk with Dr. Mahmoud. A quick visit
and then I'm gone. It'll give me the feeling that I've
accomplished something, that I haven't just languished
in the ER.
“Yes,” I say.
“Good decision,” Mom says.
“Mrs. Gilner, you have to sign off for Craig on that
decision,” the doctor says. He swivels his clip-board,
which he had been holding in front of me, toward her.
There's a terrible amount of very small writing on the
top half of the page and even more on the bottom half;
in the middle, an equator of sorts marks where you're
supposed to sign.
“There is one thing,” the doctor says. “Right now the
hospital is undergoing renovations and we're very tight
for space, so your son will be admitted with the adults.”
“I'm sorry, what?”
“He will be admitted along with our adult patients, not
with the teenagers alone.”
Oh, so I'll be waiting with old people to see Dr.
Mahmoud? “That isn't a problem,” I say.
“Good.” The doctor smiles.
“Will he be safe?” Mom asks.
“Absolutely. We have the best care in Brooklyn here,
Mrs. Gilner. The renovations are only a temporary
situation.”
“All right. Craig, you're okay with that?”
“Sure. Whatever.”
Mom puts her loopy indecipherable signature on the
sheet.
“Great. We'll get everything ready for you, Craig,” Dr.
Mahmoud says. “You're going to feel a lot better.”
“Okay,” I shake his hand. He turns and heads out, a
large suit greeting patients left and right in the ER.
The nurse touches Mom's shoulder. “I'm sorry, you
really have to go with the dog, ma'am.”
“Can I give my son a bag of clothes?”
“What am I going to need clothes for?” I ask. I look in
the bag: not only are there clothes, and not only are they
the clothes I hate, but Jordan is sitting on them.
“If you want to bring him items, you can bring them to
the hospital later in the day,” the nurse answers.
“Where is he going to be?” Mom asks, like I'm not
there.
“In Six North,” the nurse answers. “Just ask for him.
Come on.”
“I love you, Craig.”
“Bye, Mom.”
A quick hug, and she's on her way—Chris watches,
with his hands on his hips. I'm really curious about his
efficacy as a hospital security guard.
“What's Six North?” I ask him.
“Ah, uh, we're not supposed to be talking,” he says, and
sits back down with his paper. I look out the door for
some news, but it's all the same. You know, this is a
crappy place to be. I wish I wasn't depressed so I didn't
have to be here.
“Mr. Gilner?” someone finally asks. A new guy walks
up to the door, a thin, short-bearded, older hippielooking guy—except without the long hair— with 
glasses. He's not wearing a white robe or a blue robe or
a cop uniform. He's wearing jeans, a blue-collared shirt,
and what appears to be a leather vest.
“I'm Smitty. We're ready to take you up now.”
“There're two!” a doctor says as she passes by.
“Twenty-one and twenty-two.”
“Well, I don't have papers for Mr. Twenty-One.”
Smitty shakes his head. “So I'm going to be taking up
Mr. Gilner, and I'll be back down, all right? Hey, is that
Jimmy!”
“He's back” the doctor moans.
“Hey, it's Saturday, baby. Everything is going to be all
right. Mr. Gilner?” He turns to me.
“Uh, yeah.”
“You ready to get out of this crazy place?”
“Am I going to see Dr. Mahmoud?”
“Sure. Later in the day.”
“You got this one, Smitty?” Chris asks.
“I don't think you're going to give me any trouble, are
you, Mr. Gilner?”
“Um, no.”
“Okay, do you have your stuff?”
I check my bracelets, my keys, my phone, my wallet.
“Yep!”
“Let's walk.”
I hop off the stretcher, nod at Chris, and follow Smitty
at his slow pace through the ER. We open a door near
the bathroom and pierce a seal into an entirely different
biome of the hospital—red brick, indoor trees, posters
of notable doctors who practiced there. Smitty leads me
through an atrium to a bank of elevators.
He hits the up button, stands by me, and nods. I notice a
plaque between the two elevators, showing us what's on
each floor.
 4 - Pediatrics.
 5 - Delivery.
 6 - Adult Psychiatric.
Oh, he'll be up in Six North.
“Going to adult psychiatric, huh?” I ask Smitty.
“Well"—he looks at me—"you're not quite old enough
for geriatric psychiatric.” And he smiles.
The elevator dings; we get in and turn around, each
taking a corner. Smitty leads me left when we get to six.
I pass a poster with a chubby Hispanic man in blue 
robes holding his hand over his mouth: SHHHHHHHH!
HEALING IN PROGRESS. Then Smitty passes some
kind of card in front of two double doors, and the doors
open and we walk through them.
It's an empty hallway, wide enough for a grown man to
lie across with his arms stretched up. At the end are two
big windows and a collection of couches. To the right is
a small office with a glass window that has inch-wide
squares of thin wire embedded in it; inside, nurses sit at
computers. Just beyond the office, another hall branches
off to the right. I follow Smitty forward, and when we
come to the crossroads of the two halls, I glance down
the one to my right.
A man stands there, leaning on the banisters that line
the hall even though there are no steps. The man is short
and stocky; he has bugged-out eyes and a squashed face
and an almost-but-not-quite harelip. There's fuzz
coming out of his neck and a big swath of black hair on
his little head. He looks at me with homeless-person
eyes, like I just popped out of a manhole and offered
him valuable paper clips from the moon.
Oh my God, it hits. I'm in the mental ward.
Chapter Nineteen
“Come this way, we're going to take your vitals,”
Smitty says, seating me in the small office. He takes my
blood pressure off a rolling cart and my pulse with
delicate fingers. He writes down on a sheet in front of
him: 120/80.
“One-twenty-over-eighty, that's dead normal, isn't it?”
I ask.
“Yeah.” Smitty smiles. “But we prefer live normals.”
He wraps up the blood pressure gauge. “Stay right here,
we'll send a nurse in to talk to you.”
“A nurse? What are you?”
“I'm one of the daytime directors on the floor.”
“And what is this floor, exactly … ?”
“It's a short-term facility for adult psychiatric.”
“So like, a mental ward?”
“Not a ward, a hospital. Nurse'll answer any questions.”
He steps out of the office, leaving me with a form:
name, address, Social Security number. Then—wait—
I've seen this before! It's the questions from Dr.
Barney's office:
Feeling that you are unable to cope with daily life. 1)
Never, 2) Some days, 3) Nearly every day, 4) All the
time.
What the hell, I'm in the hospital; I put 4's down the
line—there are about twenty prompts—except for the
lines about self-mutilation, drinking, and drug use (I am
not putting anything about pot, that's just the rule, told
to me by Aaron—you don't ever, ever admit to
smoking pot, not to doctors, not to teachers, not to
anyone in authority no matter how much you trust
them; they can always report you to the FBI PotSmoking List). As I'm getting done, a squat black nurse
with a kind wide smile and tightly braided hair steps in.
She introduces herself with a thick West Indian accent.
“Craig, I am Monica, a nurse on the floor here. I am
going to ask you a couple of questions about what
you're feeling and find out how to help you.”
“Yeah, uh . . .” It's time to state my case. “I came in
because I was really freaked out, you know, and I
checked in downstairs, but I wasn't totally sure where I
was going, and now that I'm here, I don't know if I
really—”
“Hold on, honey, let me show you something.” Nurse
Monica stands over me, although she's so short that
we're almost the same height, and pulls out a
photocopy of the form my mom signed downstairs only
an hour before.
“You see that there? That signature says that you have
been voluntarily admitted to psychiatric care at
Argenon Hospital, yes?”
“Yeah . . .”
“And see? It says that you will be discharged at the
discretion of the doctor once he has come up with your
discharge plan.”
“I'm not getting out of here until a doctor lets me out?!”
“Now, wait.” She sits. “If you feel that this is not the
place for you, after five days you can write a letter—we
call it the Five-Day Letter—explaining why you feel
that you do not belong here, and we will review that and
allow you to leave if you qualify.” She smiles.
“So I'm here for at least five days?”
“Sometimes people are just here for two. Definitely not
more than thirty.”
Ho-boy. Well, not much to say about it. That is my
mom's signature. I sit back in my chair. This morning I
was a pretty functional teenager. Now I'm a mental
patient. But you know, I wasn't that functional. Is this
better? No, this is worse. This is a lot—
“Let's talk about how you came to be here,” Monica
prompts.
I give her the rap.
“When was the last time you were hospitalized?”
“Like, four years ago. I was in a sledding accident.”
“So you've never been hospitalized for mental
difficulties before.”
“Uh, nope.”
“Good. Now I want you to look at this chart. Do you
see here?”
There's a little scale of 0-10 on a sheet in front of her.
“This is the chart of physical pain. I want you to tell me,
right now, from a scale of zero to ten, are you
experiencing any physical pain?”
I look closer at the sheet. Below the zero it says no pain
and below the ten it says unbearable excruciating pain. I
have to bite my tongue.
“Zero,” I manage.
“All right, now, here's a very important question"—she
leans in—"did you actually try to do anything to hurt
yourself before you came here?”
I sense that this is an important question. It might be the
kind of question that determines whether I get a normal
room with a TV or a special room with straps.
“No,” I enunciate.
“You didn't take anything? You didn't try for the good
sleep?”
“I'm sorry?”
“The good sleep, you know? That's what they call it.
When you take many pills and drink alcohol and . ..”
“Ah, no,” I say.
“Well, that's good,” she says. “We don't want to lose
you. Think of your talents. Think of all the tools you
have. From your hands to your feet.”
I do think about them. I think about my hands signing
forms and my feet running, flexing up and down, as I 
sprint to some class I'm late for. I am good at certain
things.
“So right now we are getting ready for lunch,” Monica
says. “Are you a Christian?”
“Uh, yes.”
“Are you vegetarian?”
“No.”
“So no specific diet restrictions, good. I need you to
read these rules.” She drops four sheets of paper in front
of me. “They're about conduct on the floor.” My eye
falls on 6) Patients are expected to remain clean-shaven.
Shaving will be supervised by an attendant every day
after breakfast.
“I am not sure if you notice, but do you see what that
first item is on the list?”
“Uh … ‘No cell phones on the floor'?”
“That's right. Do you have one?”
I feel it in my pocket. I don't want to lose it. It's one of
the only things that's making me me right now. Without
my cell phone, who will I be? I won't have any friends
because I don't have their numbers memorized. I'll
barely have a family since I don't know their cell phone
numbers, just their home line. I'll be like an animal.
“Please give it here,” Monica says. “We will keep it in
your locker until your discharge, or you can have
visitors take care of it.”
I put it on the table.
“Please turn it off.”
I flip it open—two new voice mails, who are they?—
and hold END. Bye-bye, little phone.
“Now, this is very important; do you have anything
sharp on your person?”
“My keys?”
“Same as the phone. We keep those.”
I plop them in a heap on the table; Monica sweeps them
into a tray like an airport security worker.
“Wonderful—do you have anything else you can think
of?”
Monica, I'm down to my wallet and the clothes on my
back. I shake my head.
“Great, now hold on.” She gets up. “We're going to
have Bobby give you a tour.” Monica nods at me, keeps
my charts, leaves me to review the papers, and goes into
the hall. She returns a minute later with a gaunt, hollow
man with big circles under his eyes and a nose that
looks like it's been broken in about three places. In 
contrast to floor policy, scruff lines his chin. He's older
but still has all his hair, a stately gray mop, combed
half-heartedly. And he carries himself a little weird,
leaning back as if he were on a headrest.
“Jesus, you're a kid!” he says, curling his mouth. He
reaches out a hand for me and his hand comes out sort
of sideways, thumb crooked up.
“I'm Bobby,” he says.
His sweatshirt has Marvin the Martian on it and says
WORLD DOMINATOR.
“Craig.” I stand up.
He nods, and his Adam's apple, which has some extra
gray whiskers on it, bobs. “You ready for the grand
tour?”
Chapter Twenty
Bobby leads me into the bright hall with his odd gait.
“Everybody's in the dining room right now.” He
gestures as we go down the sideways hall, the one that
branches off of the one I entered. I look left— there's
the dining room, painted blue, overlooked by a
television, full of circular tables, separated from the hall
by that glass with the square wire mesh in it. Inside, the
tables have been pushed aside, and a panoply of people
sit in a loose circle.
I can't even process them: they're the motliest
collection of people I've ever seen. An old man with a
crazy beard (what happened to the shaving?) rocks back
and forth; a gigantic black woman rests her chin on a
cane; a burned-out-looking guy with long blond hair
puts his hand through it; a stocky bald man with slitted
eyes scratches his armpit and frowns; an older woman
with glasses mimes what appears to be an eagle,
talking, before turning and inspecting the back of her
chair. The small man I saw in the hall twitches his leg.
A girl with a streak of blue in her dark hair slumps over
her chair like she's obviously more messed up than the
others; a big girl with a wan frown leans back and
twiddles her thumbs; a black kid with wire-rim glasses
sits perfectly still, and hey—there's Jimmy from 
downstairs. He's still got his stained shirt on, and he's
looking up at the lights. They must have processed him
quick because he's a return visitor.
You can tell who the meeting leader is: a thin woman
with short dark hair. Out of a dozen or so people, she's
the only one in a suit. Some people aren't even in their
clothes, but in dark blue robes, loose and V-necked at
the top.
“Hey, man,” Bobby says, pulling me down the hall. “If
you're really interested you can just sit in on the
meeting.”
“No, I—”
“I'm doing the tour so I can get out.”
“Heh.”
“Now, smokes are at—wait, you don't smoke, do you?”
“Uh … I smoke some things—”
“Cigarettes, I'm talking about.”
“No, I don't.”
“Did they ask if you did?”
“No.”
“That's probably because you're underage. How old are
you?”
“Fifteen.”
“Jesus! Okay, well, smokes are after breakfast, after
lunch, at three in the afternoon, after dinner, and before
lights out. Five times a day.”
“All right.”
“Most people smoke. And if you had told them you
smoked, they might have given you cigarettes.”
“Darn.” I chuckle.
“It's one of the only hospitals left that lets you smoke.”
Bobby points behind us. “The smoking lounge is in the
other hall.”
We come across a third hall, perpendicular to the one
we're in. I see that Six North is shaped like an H: where
you enter is at the bottom of the left leg; the
nurses'office is at the junction of the left leg and the
center line; the dining room is at the junction of the
center line and the right leg; and the rooms line the left
and right legs. We're passing them now, going toward
the top right of the H: they're simple doors with slots
outside filled with slips of paper that say who's living
in them and who their doctor is. The patients are listed
by their first names; the doctors by their last. I see
Betty/Dr. Mahmoud, Peter/Dr. Mullens, Muqtada/Dr.
Mahmoud.
“Where's my room?”
“They probably don't have it set up yet; they'll have it
after lunch for sure. Okay, so here's the shower—” He
points to the right, to a door with a pink sliding plastic
block on it between the words VACANT and
OCCUPIED.
“When you're inside, you're supposed to put it to
OCCUPIED, but people still don't pay any attention,
and there's no lock on the door, so I like to keep real
close to the door. It's tough, ‘cause the water doesn't
reach.”
“How do I make it say ‘Occupied'? From inside?”
“No, here.” Bobby slides the block. It covers up
VACANT and only OCCUPIED appears.
“That's pretty cool.” I push it back. It's a simple
system, but I wouldn't know if Bobby hadn't showed
me.
“Is there a guys'bathroom and a girls'bathroom?”
“It's not a bathroom, it's a shower. You have your own
bathroom in your room. But it's unisex, yeah. There's a
shower in the other hall too"—we keep walking—"but I
wouldn't use it. It bothers Solomon.”
“Who's Solomon?”
We come to the end of the hall. The windows have two
panes of glass with blinds, somehow, between them.
Outside it's a cloud-spattered May Brooklyn day.
Chairs line the dead end. As we approach, a wilted little
girl with blond hair and cuts on her face looks up from a
pad of something and scurries into a nearby room.
“They show movies here sometimes.” Bobby shrugs.
“Sometimes at the other end by the smoking lounge.”
“Uh-huh. Who was that?”
“Noelle. They moved her in from teen.” We turn
around. “Medications are given out after breakfast, after
lunch, and before bed. We take them over there.”
Bobby points to a desk across from the dining room,
where Smitty sits, pouring soda. “That's the
nurses'station; the other place is the nurses'office. All
your lockers and stuff are behind the nurses'station.”
“They took my cell phone.”
“Yeah, they do that.”
“What about e-mail?”
“What?” We're back by the dining room. I slow my
pace. Inside, the stocky bald man with squinty eyes who
was frowning is speaking slowly and plaintively:
“. . . Some people here who treat you like they have no
respect for you as a human being, which I take personal 
offense to, and just because I went to my doctor and
told him, ‘I'm not afraid of dying; I'm only afraid of
living, and I want to put a bayonet through my
stomach,'that doesn't mean I'm afraid of any of you.”
“Let's concentrate on our discussion of things that make
us happy, Humble,” says the psychologist.
“And I know about psychologists, when they're writing
down what you're saying they're really writing down
how much money they're going to get when they sell
their latest yacht, because they're all yuppies with no
respect. …”
“C'mon,” Bobby taps me.
“Is his name Humble?”
“Yeah. He's from Bensonhurst.” Bensonhurst is a
particularly retro section of Brooklyn, an Italian and
Jewish neighborhood where a girl can walk down the
street and have a car full of guys cruise up to her: Hey
baby, you wanna ride?
“Where are you from?” I ask.
“Sheepshead Bay.” That's another old-time Brooklyn
‘hood. Russian. All these parts are far out.
“I'm from here,” I say.
“What, this neighborhood? This neighborhood is nice.”
“Yeah, I guess so.”
“Man, I'd give my one remaining ball to live here, I tell
you that. I'm trying to get into a home around here, at
the Y. Anyway—there's the phone.” He points to our
left. There's a pay phone with a yellow receiver. “It's
on until ten at night,” he says. “The number to call back
is written right on it, and it's on your sheet too, if you
need people to call back. If someone calls for you, don't
worry, some-one'll find you.”
Bobby stops a second.
“That's it.”
It's really very simple.
“What do we do in here?” I ask.
“They have activities; a guy comes and plays guitar.
Joanie comes in with arts and crafts. Other than that,
you know, just take phone calls; try and get out, really.”
“How long do people stay?”
“Kid like you, got money, got a family, you'll be out in
a few days.”
I look at Bobby's deep-sunk eyes. I get the feeling—I
don't know how I know the rules of mental-ward
etiquette; maybe I was born with them; maybe I knew
I'd end up here—but I get the feeling that one big no-no 
in this place is asking people how they got here. It'd be
a little like walking up to somebody in prison and going
“So? So? What's up, huh? Didja kill somebody?
Didja?”
But I also get the impression that you can volunteer the
reasons you got here at any time and no one will judge;
no one will think you're too crazy or not crazy enough,
and that's how you make friends. After all, what else is
there to talk about? So I tell Bobby: “I'm here because I
suffer from serious depression.”
“Me too.” He nods. “Since I was fifteen.” And his eyes
shine with blackness and horror. We shake hands.
“Hey, Craig!” Smitty says from his desk. “We got your
room ready; you want to meet your roommate?”
Chapter Twenty-One
My roommate is Muqtada.
He looks about like what you'd expect for a guy named
Muqtada: big; straight gray beard; wide, wrinkled dark
face; glasses with white plastic rims. He doesn't have
any clothes, apparently, because he's in a dark blue
robe, which smells intensely of body odor. Not that it's
easy to notice any of this stuff at first, because when I
go into the room, he's burrowed into bed.
Smitty flicks on the light. “Muqtada! It's almost lunch!
Wake up. You have a new roommate!”
“Mm?” He peers out from his sheets. “Who is?”
“I'm Craig,” I say, hands in my pockets.
“Mm. Is very cold here, Craig. You not like it.”
“Muqtada, weren't the men in here to fix the heat?”
“Yes, they fix yesterday, very cold. Fix today, tonight
very cold.”
“It's spring, buddy; it doesn't get cold.”
“Mm.”
“Craig, that's you over there.”
The bed in the far corner is made up for me, if you can
call it that. It's the sparsest bed I've ever seen: small
and pale yellow with a sheet, a topsheet, and one
pillow. No blanket, no stuffed animals, no drawers
below, no patterns, no candles, no headboard. This
reflects the style of the room, which basically has a
window (encased blinds again), a radiator under
paneling, two beds, a table between the two beds with
two funny-shaped hospital pitchers of water on top,
lights, closet, and a bathroom. There aren't any patterns
on the wall; only the ceiling has porous tiles that could
be fun to look at. I check the closet. Muqtada has a tired
pair of pants on the bottom shelf. The rest of the space
is mine. I take off my hoodie and stuff it in there.
“Okay?” Smitty asks. “Lunch in five minutes.” He
leaves the door open.
I sit down on my bed.
“Please close door, please,” Muqtada says. I close it,
come back. He looks right through me. “Thank you.”
“What do we have for lunch?” I ask.
“Hm.”
I'm not sure how to respond to that. I asked him a what
question. “Ah … Is the food good?”
“Mm.”
“Ah . .. Where are you from?”
“Egypt,” he says in a clipped voice, and it's the first
word I've heard him say that he sounds happy with.
“Where are you from? Your family?”
“White. German and Irish and Czech. A little Jewish,
we think. But I'm Christian, I guess.”
That reminds me: in this sparse room, is it possible that
the Gideons have placed a Bible? They put one in every
motel in the world; they should have gotten to this
place. I check the drawers, under the pitchers of water:
nope. Out of range of the Gideons. This is serious.
“Mm,” Muqtada says. “What you look for? There is
nothing.” He keeps staring.
I want to lie down, to get the sleep I couldn't get last
night, but something about the way my roommate is
lying there makes me want to leave, to walk around.
Maybe it'll be good to be with someone like him,
someone who seems worse off than me. I never really
considered it, but there are people worse off than me,
right? I mean, there really are people who are homeless
and can't get out of bed and are never going to be able
to hold a job and, in Muqtada's case, have serious
problems with temperature, all because their brains are
broken. Compared to them I'm . . . well, I'm a spoiled
rich kid. Which is another something to feel bad about.
So, who's worse off?
I go out into the hall and almost bash headlong into one
of the giant metal racks of trays. The rack gives off heat
and smells of fresh cooked salty food and is being
wheeled along by an attendant in a skullcap.
“Careful!” he yells at me.
Oh, no. Now I have to eat. This will be the first time
that they'll see how bad things are with me— I couldn't
eat that egg downstairs and can't eat anything now.
What if I get stressed and the man pulls his rope in my
stomach and I throw up in the dining room? That'll be a
fine entrance.
“Lunch!” the little man with the almost harelip calls
down the hall. He pops out of the dining room, walks
down to the far window and back, and knocks on
everyone's door, even if they're awake and right in his
face. “Come on, Candace! Let's go, Bernie! C'mon,
Kate! Time to eat! Come on, Muqtada!”
“That's Armelio,” a voice says behind me. I turn; it's
Bobby in his Martian sweatshirt. “They call him the
President. He runs the whole floor.”
“Hi, who're ya?” Armelio asks as he passes.
“Craig.” I shake his hand.
“Great to meet you! All right! People! We have a new
person here! Excellent, buddy! My new buddy. Tha's 
great! Time for lunch! Solomon, come out of your
room, don't give any trouble, come and eat!
Everybody's gotta eat!”
I move into the dining room with Armelio bellowing
and cast myself at a seat next to the bald man, Humble,
who is still talking about psychologists and yachts.
Chapter Twenty-Two
What are the chances, in picking a meal for me, that
Argenon Hospital gets the one thing I can handle right
now? Between fish nuggets and veal marsala and a
Technicolor quiche and other items of disgust I see
handed out on trays to other people (Armelio, the
President, hands out all the trays, announcing people's
names as he does so: “Gilner, Gilner, that's my new
friend!"), I get curry-flavored chicken breast: it doesn't
have real liquid curry, just a lovely infusion of yellow
spices and a plastic knife and fork to cut it up. It also
has broccoli, the vegetable I like best, and herbed
carrots on the side. When I open the plastic lid, I grin,
because I know something has shifted in my stomach—
not the big Shift, but something concrete—and I am
going to eat this. Besides the chicken and vegetables,
the tray has coffee, hot water, a teabag, milk, sugar, salt,
pepper, juice, yogurt, and a cookie. It's as good-looking
a meal as I can remember. I start to slice the chicken.
“Does anyone have extra salt?” Humble, across my
table, stretches his neck to the room.
“Here.” I split him off my salt packet. “I would've
hooked you up.”
“See, you didn't speak to me,” Humble says, pouring
the salt on his chicken, looking at me through eyes 
surrounded by thin and purple-hued skin, as if he got
punched in both a week ago. “So naturally I assumed
you were one of those yuppies.”
“I'm not.” I put chicken in my mouth. It tastes good.
“There's a lot of yuppies in this place, and you have
that look about you, you know—the yuppie look of
people with money?”
“Yeah.”
“People who don't care about other people. Unlike me.
See, I genuinely care about other people. Does that
mean that I sometimes won't be inclined to beat the hell
out of somebody? No, but that's my environment. I'm
like an animal.”
“We're all like animals,” I say. “Especially now, when
we're all in a room eating. It reminds me of high
school.”
“You're smart, I see that. We're all animals, high
school is animals, but some of us are more animal than
others. Like in Animal Farm, which I read, all animals
are created equal, but some are more equal than others?
Here in the real world, all equals are created animal, but
some are more animal than others. Hold on, let me write
that down.” Humble reaches behind him to the one
window in the dining room, which has board games
stacked up under it. He pulls Scrabble off the top of the 
stack, fishes out a pen from the box, removes the board,
flips it over, and writes on the back of it, which is
already covered with scribbling—
“Humble!” Smitty says from the door.
“Hey, hey, okay!” He throws his hands up. “I didn't do
it!”
“How many times do we have to tell you, no writing on
the Scrabble board! Do you need pencil and paper?”
“Whatever, “ he says. “It's all in here.” He points to his
head, then turns back to me as if absolutely nothing had
interrupted our conversation. “Me and you, we might be
equals, but I'm more animal.”
“Uh-huh.” I clearly picked the right place to sit.
“I need to be the alpha male in any given situation.
That's why as soon as I noticed you I made a few
judgments. I saw that you were very young. Now in the
wild, the lion who sees new youngsters from another
pride, another breed, he'll kill and eat those youngsters
so he can breed his own offspring. But here"—he
gestures around, as if you need to elucidate what “here”
is, as if you don't just take it for granted once you're
inside—"there unfortunately appears to be a distinct
lack of women accepting of my breeding potential. So
in your youth you are not a threat to me.”
“I see.” Across the room, Jimmy is trying to open his
juice with one hand. The other hand stays at his side; I
can't tell if he can't move it or just doesn't want to.
Smitty comes over and helps him.
“It'll come to ya!” he says.
“Do you feel that I'm a threat to you?” Humble asks.
“No, you seem like a pretty cool guy.” I munch.
Humble nods. His food, which was sitting on the plate
in front of him, very innocent and oblivious, gets
destroyed over the next twenty seconds as he eats half
of it. I continue my slow and steady pace.
“When I was your age—you're fifteen, right?”
I nod. “How'd you know?”
“I'm good with ages. When I was fifteen, I had this
chick who was twenty-eight. I don't know why, but she
loved me. Now, I was doing a lot of pot back then, my
whole life was pot. . .”
It's weird how your stomach can come back around. As
I tune Humble out, I eat not because I want to, not
because I have to overcome anything, not to prove
myself to anyone, but because it's there. I eat because
that's what people do. And somehow when the food is
put in front of you by an institution, when there's a
large gray force behind it and you don't have to thank 
anyone for it, you have the animal instinct to make it
disappear, before a rival like Humble comes along and
snatches it away. I think, I think as I chew, my problem
might be too much thinking.
That's why you need to join the Army, soldier.
I thought I was already in the Army, sir!
You're in the mental army, Gilner, not the U.S. Army.
So I should join?
I don't know: can you handle it?
I don't know.
Well, you seem to know that you like order and dis
cipline. That's what the Army offers young men like
you, Gilner, and that's what you're getting here.
But I don't want to be in the Army; I want to be normal.
You've got some considerin'to do, then, soldier,
because normal ain't no job as far as I'm concerned.
“Do you have a girlfriend?” Humble asks.
“What?”
“Do you? Somewhere out there. You got a hot little
fifteen-year-old?” He points his food-colored fork at
me.
“No!” I smile, thinking of Nia.
“They got cute ones, though.” Humble runs his hand
through hair that is no longer there. He has hairy dark
arms with tattoos of jokers, swords, bulldogs, and pirate
ships. “They just keep making the girls cuter and cuter.”
“It's all the hormones,” I say.
“That's right. You're very smart. You got any sugar?”
I hand over a sugar packet. I've finished my chicken
and I could eat more, frankly, but I don't know who to
ask. Might as well make the tea. I open the teabag,
which is labeled “Swee-Touch-Nee,” a brand I have
never heard of and am not convinced actually exists,
and stain my water with a bunch of deep dips. As I'm
finishing up, Smitty approaches with a second tray of
food, identical to the first.
“You look like you could handle some seconds,” he
says.
“Thanks.”
“Eat up.”
I tackle the second chicken. I am a working machine.
Part of me works that didn't before.
“The girls, they drink all this milk with cow hormones,”
I say between bites, “and they develop a lot younger.”
“You're telling me!” Humble says. “The crazy thing is
how the girls in my day were a lot better than my
father's girls. I wonder what the next generation will be
like.”
“Sex robots.”
“Heh heh. Where you from?”
“Around here.”
“This neighborhood? Nice. Must've been a quick ride.
If you came by ambulance. And I'm not assuming and
I'm not judging. I'm just being curious.” He eats two
gigantic bites of his food, chews and continues, “How
did you get here?”
He's broken the rule of Six North. But maybe it's not a
rule. Or maybe eating with someone breaks it.
“I checked myself in.”
“You did? Why?”
“I was feeling pretty bad; I wanted to kill myself.”
“Buddy, that's what I told my doctor the other week. I
told him, ‘Doc, I'm not afraid of dying; I'm only afraid
of living, and I want to put this bayonet through my
stomach,'and then I stopped taking my blood-pressure
medication. Because I have high blood pressure on top
of everything else, on top of the drugs they have me on 
here that keep me whacked out of my mind; if I don't
eat lots of salt to regulate my blood pressure I'll die, so
when I told him I wasn't taking my medication he said
‘What, are you crazy? Are you trying to kill yourself?!
And I looked him right in the eyes and said ‘Yes.'And
they carted me off here.”
“Huh.”
“The problem is I've been living in my car for the last
year. I have nothing; I have the clothes on my back and
that's it. The only thing I have is the car and now the
car has been towed and all my stuff is inside. There's
thirty-five hundred dollars'worth of film equipment in
there.”
“Wow.”
“So over the next few days I have to call the police
station, the tow yard, get myself into an adult home, and
talk to my daughter. She's about your age. The mother
I'm completely over but the daughter I love to death.
The mother I'd like to love to death.”
“Heh.”
“Don't do me any favors; only laugh if it's funny.”
“It is!”
“Good. Because right now I don't have you pegged as a
yuppie. You're something else. I'm not sure what you
are, but I'm going to find out.”
“Cool.”
“I'm gonna go get my medication so I can sit through
this afternoon with my head completely whacked.”
Humble slides away; I finish eating the chicken. When
it's done—clean plate—I feel better than I have about
anything I've done in a long time, maybe a year. This is
all I need to do. Keith was hes itant at the Anxiety
Management Center, but he was right—all you need is
food, water, and shelter. And here I have all three. What
next?
I look across the dining room, and three of the younger
people—the big girl, the girl with dark hair and blue
streak, and the blond girl with cuts—are all sitting
together.
“C'mere.” Blue Streak beckons.
Chapter Twenty-Three
It's been a while since a bunch of girls asked me over to
their table. First time, really.
“Me?” I point at myself.
“No, the other new guy,” Blue Streak says.
I'm not sure what to do with my tray. I get up, then turn
back, then turn toward the girls, then swivel—
“On the cart,” Blue Streak says. She turns to the big
girl. “God, he's so cute.”
Did she just say that? I put my tray on the cart and sit at
the vacant seat with the girls.
“What's your name?” Blue Streak asks.
“Ah, Craig.”
“So what's it like to be the hottest guy in here, Craig?”
My body hitches and jerks up as if on a pulley system.
She's got it all wrong—she's the hot one. It's tough to
tell whether her skin or teeth are the more perfect white.
Her eyes are dark and her lips pouty and open; the blue
streak accents the contrast of hair and face, and she
smiles at me—that's defi nitely smiling. I don't know 
how I didn't notice her hotness before, when I looked
into the dining room.
“Jennifer,” the big girl says. She leans toward me. “I'm
Becca. Don't take advantage of Jennifer; she's a sex
addict.”
Jennifer smacks her lips: “Shut up!” She turns back.
“I'm only here for one more day.” She slithers forward.
“You want to spend it with me?”
I think about what Humble would say. He would say
Yeah, absolutely, because he's the alpha male. I try to
develop and drop my words, keeping my voice deep
and level: “Yeah, absolutely.”
“Good,” she says, and there's a heat on my knee and a
hand moving up my leg. She leans in. “I think you're
really hottt.” The hand encloses my thigh. “I have my
own private room because I'm so messed up they won't
let me sleep with anybody else.”
“You have your own private room because you're a
slut!” Becca corrects, and Jennifer kicks her.
“Ow!”
Without warning, the blond girl with the cuts on her
face gets up and speed-walks out of the room. I look
through the window for her: nothing.
“Forget her,” Jennifer says. “She's no good for you.”
Then, sparking an out-of-body experience that truly
makes me question whether I'm dreaming this, or have
died and gone to some kind of awesome hell, she flicks
her tongue around her lips in a perfect O.
Something flashes out in the hall. The blond girl streaks
to the window. I can't be sure it's her. I mean, it is a
her—it has breasts. And I think I recognize her small
body and wife-beater. But I can't see her face because
she presses up a piece of paper against the glass:
BEWARE OF PENIS
The sign slides down as if on an elevator.
“What are you looking at?” Jennifer asks, turning back.
I eye her body as she swivels; from the waist up she
doesn't look like she has a penis. I keep my peripheral
vision on the hall in case the messenger returns.
“Ha!” Becca is like. “Noelle did it to you again.”
“She what?” Jennifer stands. She has a round and
totally female shape. Her legs are encased with jeans
that have frills around her butt.
“I can't believe her … hey.” She turns back. “You
looking at my pants?”
“Yeah,” I gulp. I've lost all alpha maleness. Could I be
like a theta male? They have to get lucky sometime. 
Being on top of the sexual food chain is a lot of
pressure.
“I made them myself,” she says. “I'm a fashion
designer.”
“Wow, really? That's like a real job.” My mind spins;
it's somehow fallen off the sex track into grade-school
logic. “I thought you were my age; how'd you learn
how to design clothes—”
“All right,” Smitty strides in. “Playtime's over. C'mon,
Charles.”
“What the hell!” Jennifer jumps a few inches in the air
and stomps her feet. Then, horror of horrors, her voice
drops two octaves. “You guys won't let me have any
fun!”
It's a bad voice, even for a guy, like a frog croaking.
Becca laughs and laughs, doubling over on herself, and
all I can do is catch my breath and stare goggle-eyed at
Jennifer for signs. It can't be. She's flat, that's all. She
has big hands; lots of girls have big hands. She doesn't
have an Adam's apple—oh, wait, she's wearing a
turtleneck.
“C'mon, don't bother Craig,” Smitty says.
“But he's so cute!”
“He's not cute, he's a hospital patient like you. You're
supposed to get out tomorrow; don't jeopardize it. Have
you taken your medicine yet?”
“Hormone treatments.” Jennifer/Charles winks at me.
“C'mon, enough.”
Becca laughs, sighs. “Oh, she got you good. I'm getting
my meds.”
I look down at the table as they leave. I need some
meds. I glance up and see patients lined up at the desk
next to the phone, the nurses'station, eagerly passing
the time in their own little ways— President Armelio
bopping from foot to foot, Jimmy holding the hand that
refuses to work—before getting pills in little plastic
cups. Jennifer/Charles and Becca eventually appear at
the end of the line, chatting and gesticulating, and
Jennifer/Charles blows me a kiss. I don't think I need to
be in line behind them right now. Besides, all I take is
Zoloft in the morning; if they wanted me on something
midday, they would have told me.
When Becca and J/C are gone and I'm still sitting shellshocked at the table, another sign appears at the
window, this one inching up from below as if hoisted
by spider threads:
DON'T WORRY. HE/SHE/IT GETS EVERYBODY,
WELCOME TO SIX NORTH!
When I go out to find her, she isn't there. I ask the
nurse wrapping up her dispensing duties if I need any
meds, and she says I'm not scheduled for any. I ask her
if I can have some. She asks what I need them for. I tell
her, to deal with this crazy place. She says if they had
pills for that, they wouldn't need places like this in the
first place, would they?
Chapter Twenty-Four
“So what's it like?” Mom asks, holding a tote bag of
toiletries, with Dad and Sarah next to her. We're at the
end of the right H leg, me in one chair facing the three
of them. Visiting hours are from 12 to 8 on Saturday.
Sarah doesn't let me answer.
“It's like One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest!” she says,
excited. She's dressed up in jeans and a fake suede
jacket for Six North. “I mean, all these people look like
. .. serious crazies!”
“Shhh,” I tell her. “Jimmy's right there.” Jimmy is
behind her at the window, sitting with his arms crossed
as usual, out of his shirt and into a clean navy robe.
“Who's Jimmy?” Mom asks eagerly.
“The guy I came in with downstairs. I think he's
schizophrenic.”
“Doesn't that mean he has two personalities?” Sarah
asks, turning. “Like, he's not just Jimmy; he's also
Molly or something.”
“No, you'd be surprised, that's a different one,” I raise
my eyebrows. “Jimmy's just a little . . . scattered.”
Jimmy sees me looking at him and smiles. “I tell you,
you play those numbers, it'll come to ya!” he chirps.
“I think he's talking about Lotto numbers,” I explain.
“I've been trying to figure it out.”
“Oh my gosh.” My sister covers her face.
“No, Sarah, don't do that, watch,” Mom says. She turns
around. “Thank you very much, Jimmy.”
“I tell you: it the truth!”
“I like this place,” Mom turns back. “I think it's full of
good people.”
“I really like it.” Dad leans in. “When can I join?” But
when no one laughs, he leans back, clasps his hands,
sighs.
“Is that a transvestite?” Sarah asks. J/C is down the hall,
like forty feet away, and I don't know for the life of me
how Sarah suspects something out there that I couldn't
see at point-blank range.
“No, now listen—”
“Is it?” Dad squints.
“Guys!”
“Trans-vestite!” Jimmy shrieks. He does it at top
range—I haven't heard him that loud before. The entire 
hall, which admittedly is just me, my family, J/C, and
the older professor-type woman with the glasses, stops
and stares.
“I tell you once, it'll come: it come to ya!”
J/C starts walking toward us. “Are we talking about
me?” he asks in his guy voice. He waves at Jimmy.
“Hey, Jimmy.” He comes right up between me and my
sister. “Craig, your name is, right?”
“Yeah,” I mumble.
“Wow, is this your family?”
“Yeah.” I tip my palm at each of them—it's at the level
of the frills on his pants. “My dad"—he juts his lip
out—"my mom"—she nods, all smiles—"and my sister,
Sarah"—she reaches out a hand.
“Oh my God, so lovely!” J/C says. “I'm Charles.” He
shakes with everyone. “They're going to take really
good care of your son here. He's a good guy.”
“How about you; what are you in for?” Dad asks. I kick
him. Doesn't he know what not to ask?
“It's okay, Craig!” J/C touches my shoulder. “My gosh,
did you just kick your dad? I never even did that.” He
addresses Dad: “I have bipolar, sir, and I had an
episode, and they brought me here. I'm going back 
upstate today. But the doctors are very attentive here,
and the turnaround time is great.”
“Wonderful,” Mom says.
“Of course"—J/C gestures to us—"it's a lot better when
you have family support. They want to make sure they
discharge you into a safe environment. I don't have
that.” He shakes his head. “Craig, you're very lucky.”
I look at them: my safe environment. I frankly wouldn't
be surprised to find any of them in Six North.
“Well, I'll leave you guys to your afternoon,” J/C says.
He walks away slowly.
Jimmy makes an indecipherable high-pitched whining
noise.
“That's applause, isn't it?” Dad asks, throwing a thumb
behind him. “I like that.”
“Those are awesome pants,” Sarah says.
“Okay, so let's get down to business, Craig,” Mom is
like. “What do you need?”
“I need a phone card. I need you guys to take my phone
and leave it plugged in so the calls register. I need some
clothes, like what you were bringing before, Mom. I
don't need towels; they have those. Magazines would
be good. And a pencil and paper, that would rock.”
“Simple enough. What kind of magazines?”
“Science magazines! He loves those,” Dad says.
“He might not be up for science magazines right now,”
Mom answers. “Do you want anything lighter?”
“Do you want Star?” Sarah asks.
“Sarah, why would I want Star?”
“Because it's awesome.” She reaches into her purse—
her first one, black, a recent Mom purchase—and
unrolls a glossy pink monstrosity, complete with
pictures of the most recent spectacular outing of a
celebrity breast in public.
I hold it up for Jimmy.
“Mmmmmm-hmmmmmm! “ he says. “I tell you! I tell
you! It come to ya!”
“That's very nice,” says the professor woman with
bugged-out eyes, who I somehow didn't realize had
migrated right behind me. “Oh, excuse me,” she looks
up. “I wasn't listening to your conversation at all.” She
walks to her room.
“Um . . .” Sarah says.
“I'll take it,” I say. I put it under my seat. “I think the
floor will enjoy it.”
“Is it just me, or are you starting to develop a sort of
allegiance to the tribe?” Dad asks.
“Shhh.” I smile.
“Craig, the next order of business: have you called Dr.
Barney?”
“No.”
“Have you called Dr. Minerva?”
“No.”
“Well, they both need to know where you are, for health
insurance reasons and because they're your doctors and
they care about you and this is going to be very
important to them.”
“Their numbers are in my phone.”
“Well, let's call them; we picked up your phone from
the front,” Mom reaches into her bag—
“No!” Dad grabs her hands. “Don't take out the phone!”
“Don't be ridiculous, honey. Craig's the one who's not
allowed to have it, not us.”
“Well, uh, I don't think we want to be getting our son in
trouble. This isn't the kind of place you want to be
getting sent to a time-out.”
I look at him."That's really not that funny.”
“What? Oh, sorry,” he says.
“No, Dad, seriously. It's not … I mean, this is serious
business.”
“I'm just trying to lighten the mood, Craig—”
“Well, that's what you're always trying to do. Let's
just, not do it here.”
Dad nods, looks me dead in the eyes; slowly and
regretfully, he banishes all the smiling and joking from
his face, and for once he's just my dad, watching his
son who has fallen so low. “All right, then.”
We stay quiet.
“Is that the truth, Jimmy?” I ask without looking at him.
“It's the truth, and it come to ya!”
I smile.
“We'll handle the phone later,” Dad sums up.
“Next order of business?” Mom asks.
“How long I'm going to be in here, I think.”
“How long do you think?”
“A couple of days. But I haven't seen the doctor yet.
Dr. Mahmoud.”
“Right, how is he? Is he good?”
“I don't know, Mom. You met him for as long as I did.
He makes rounds soon, and I'll get to talk with him.”
“I think you need to stay here until you're better, Craig.
You don't want to come out early and have to come
back; that's how you get ‘in the system.'”
“Right. I won't. I think that's actually a big part of
places like this: they make them so you don't want to
come back.
“How's the food?” Sarah asks.
“Oh, I almost forgot,” I look at my family. “I'm … I
know I shouldn't be proud about this; it's like really sad
that this is my big accomplishment of the day . . . but I
ate everything at lunch.”
“You did?” Mom stands up, pulls me up and hugs me.
“Yeah.” I pull away. “It was chicken. I actually ate two
helpings of it.”
“Son, that is a big one,” Dad gets up and shakes my
hand.
“No, it's not, it's really simple, everybody does it, but
for me it's like a stupid triumph—”
“No,” Mom says, looking me in the eyes. “What's a
triumph is that you woke up this morning and decided
to live. That's a triumph. That's what you did today.”
I nod at her. Like I say, I'm not a crier.
“Yeah, cause if you had died …” Sarah is like, “that
would have sucked.” She rolls her eyes and hugs my
leg.
I sit back down. “Once the food is in front of you it's
just like, eat. I mean, they're professionals here; they
know how to take people and put them in a routine that
gives them something to do.”
“That's right,” Mom says. “So what are you going to do
now?”
“I think there are activities—”
“Hey, Craig, is this your family?” President Armelio
steps on the scene. His half-harelip and hair shock my
sister, but his relentless enthusiasm for just—I don't
know—living—would knock the fear out of anybody.
He shakes all the hands and says we're a beautiful
family and I'm a good guy, he can tell.
“Craig's my buddy! Hey, buddy—you want to play
cards?”
President Armelio holds up a deck of playing cards like
he just fished it out of the sea.
“Yeah, absolutely!” I say. I stand up. When was the last
time I played cards? Before the test, probably—before
high school.
“All right!” Armelio says. “My kinda guy! Let's do it.
I've been looking and looking: nobody here likes to
play cards like I do! What do you want to play?
Spades? I'll crush you, buddy; I'll crush you.”
I look at my parents. “We'll call you,” Mom says. “And
hey—what about sleeping?”
“I'm wired right now,” I say. “But I'll crash. I'm
starting to get a headache.”
“Headache? Buddy, once I crush you in spades, you're
going to have a lot bigger headache!” Armelio toddles
away to the dining room to set up the cards.
“See ya,” Sarah says, hugging me.
“Bye, son.” Dad shakes my hand.
“I love you,” Mom says. “I'll call you with the
doctors'phone numbers.”
“And bring a phone card.”
“And I'll bring a phone card. You hang in there, Craig.”
“Yeah, I will.” And as soon as they're around the bend,
I head into the dining room and learn how to play
spades for the rest of the afternoon, which Armelio
absolutely does crush me in.
Chapter Twenty-Five
I'm afraid of making phone calls. The phone on Six
North is a hubbub of activity, with Bobby and the blond
burned-out-type, who I learn is named Johnny, fielding
calls from, I assume, their respective female
counterparts. Bobby starts off his calls happy and says
“Baby” a lot, but then he gets angry and slams the
phone down saying “bitch"; Smitty tells him not to do
that; Bobby walks away leaning back with a particularly
potent aura of not caring. Five minutes later, another
call comes in for him, and he's back to “Baby.” He
doesn't ever answer the phone, though; President
Armelio has that job. When he answers, he always says
“Joe's Pub,” and then finds whoever the call's for.
In a rare moment when Johnny and Bobby leave the
phone open, I walk up to it with the phone card that
Mom brought me twenty minutes after she left with
Dad and Sarah. I pick up and hear the dial tone, dial the
800 number for the phone card . . . and then stop. I can't
do it. I just don't want to deal with it.
People on the outside world don't know what's
happened to me—I'm in a sort of stasis right now.
Things are under control. But the dam will break. Even
if I'm here just through Monday, the rumors will start
flying, and the homework will pile up.
Where's Craig?
He's sick.
He's not sick, he got alcohol poisoning because he can't
handle real liquor.
I heard he took someone's pills and freaked out.
I heard he realized he's gay and he's coming to grips
with it.
I heard his parents are sending him to a different school.
He couldn't handle it here, anyway. He was always
such a loser.
He's freaking out in front of his computer. He can't
move or anything. He's catatonic.
He woke up and thinks he's a horse.
Well, whatever, what's question three?
There were two messages on my phone when I came in,
and now there are probably more, each one
necessitating a call back, and the call back possibly
necessitating another call back—Tentacles— leading
me right back to where I was last night. I can't go there,
so I wait. I can wait five minutes. But then Bobby's on
the line. And then I wait another five minutes. And the
messages are piling up. And this isn't even counting e-
mail. What sort of hellish assignments have my teachers
e-mailed out?
“Excuse me, are you using the phone?” the giant black
woman with the cane asks as I stare at it.
“Yeah, uh.” I pick up the receiver in my hands. “Yes.
Yes I am.”
“Okay.” She smiles, rolling her gums, not showing
teeth. I start dialing, enter my PIN, enter my own
number.
“Please enter your password, then press the pound
sign.”
I obey.
“You have—three—new messages. “
One more than before. Not so bad.
“First new message: message marked urgent.”
Uh-oh.
“Hey, Craig, it's Nia, I just, um … we talked and you
were sounding really bad. I just wanted to make sure
you were doing all right, and since you're not
answering—it's like two A.M., I mean, why would you
be answering?—but I'm kinda worried that maybe you
went and did something stupid because of me. Don't. I 
mean, it's sweet, but don't. Okay, that's it, I'm with
Aaron, he's being a total dick. Bye.”
“To erase this message—”
I hit 7.
“Next message.”
“Craig, it's Aaron, call me back son! Let's chill—”
I hit 7-7.
“Next message.”
“Hello, Mr. Gilner, this is your science teacher, Mr.
Reynolds. I got your phone number from the student
directory. We really need to talk about the lack of your
labs; I'm missing five of them—”
7-7.
“End of messages. “
I put the phone down like it's a dangerous animal. I
pick back up, call home. Can't stop now.
“Sarah, can you get the phone numbers of Nia and
Aaron out of my cell? And look through the recent
missed calls for something from Manhattan; I have to
call my science teacher.”
“Sure. How are things over there?”
I look to my left. A Hasidic Jewish guy, complete with
the white pants, yarmulke, tassels hanging off him,
braided hair, and sandals, dashes down the hall toward
me. Scraps of red food dot his dark beard, and his eyes
are wild and unhinged. He says to me: “I'm Solomon.”
“Um, I've heard about you. I'm Craig, but I'm on the
phone.” I cup the receiver.
“I would ask you to please keep it down! I'm trying to
rest!” He turns and races away, holding his pants.
“Oooh! Solomon introduced himself to you!” hoots the
woman with the cane. “That's big.”
“It's normal,” I tell my sister.
“Okay, here.” She gives me Nia's and Aaron's and the
teacher's numbers; I write them down on a scrap of
paper that Smitty has given me. I should've known
these before. Nia's looks good written down—
wholesome and useful. The science teacher's looks
jagged and hateful. I may not be able to call him until
tomorrow.
“Thanks, Sarah—bye.”
I hang up and look toward the lady with the cane.
“Hey, I'm Craig,” I say.
“Ebony.” She nods. We shake hands.
“Ebony, it's cool if I just make one more call?”
“Of course.”
I dial the 800 number, enter my PIN, dial Nia.
“Hello?”
“Hey, Nia, it's me.”
“Craig, where are you?”
It's funny how people ask that as soon as they get you
on the phone. I think it's a byproduct of cell phones:
people—girls and moms especially— want to nail you
down in physical space. The fact is that you could be
anywhere on a cell phone and it shouldn't be important
where you are. But it becomes the first thing people ask.
“I'm at a friend's house. In Brooklyn.”
I wonder, too, how many lies cell phones have
contributed to the world.
“Uh-huh, Craig. I don't think so.”
“What do you mean?” I wipe sweat off my brow. The
sweat is starting again. This isn't good. I was sweating
down in the ER, but I wasn't sweating at lunch.
“You're not at any friend's house. You're probably at
some girl's house.”
I look at Ebony. She smiles and leans forward on her
cane. “Yeah, totally.”
“I know you. Last night you had me on the phone;
tonight you're out hooking up with some girl.”
“Sure, Nia—”
“Seriously, how are you? Thanks for calling back. I was
worried.”
“I know, I got your message.”
“I don't want you to freak out over me. I think you just
need some time to decompress a little bit, and not think
about me, and think about someone else. Because, like,
I know we might be good for each other, but I'm with
someone else, you know?”
“Right… um … I wasn't freaking out about you last
night, actually.”
“No?”
“No, I was freaking out about, like, much bigger things.
I was having kind of a crisis, and I wanted to reach out
to somebody who understood.”
“But you asked me if we would ever have been able to
be together.”
“Well, I was trying to clear that up because, y'know …
I wanted to do something stupid.”
She drops her voice: “Kill yourself?”
“Yeah.”
“You wanted to kill yourself over me?”
“No!” I scowl. “I was just in a really bad place, and you
were part of it, obviously, because you're a part of my
life, just like Aaron is a part of it and my family is a
part of it, but I thought you could clear something up
for me before I…”
“Craig, I'm so flattered.”
“No, you have the wrong idea. Don't be flattered.”
“How could I not be? I never had a boy want to kill
himself for me before. It's like the most romantic
thing.”
“Nia, it wasn't about you.”
“Are you sure?”
I look down, and the answer is right there in my chest
and it's resounding. “Yes. I have bigger problems than
you.”
“Ah, okay.”
“And you shouldn't assume that everything is always
about you.”
“Whatever. What's wrong with you?”
“Nothing. Everything's a lot better now, actually.”
“You're acting like a total dick. Do you want to come
out tonight?”
“I can't.”
“Did Aaron call you? We're having a big party at his
house.”
“Right. I'm probably not going to be partying for . . .
like … a while. Like ever, maybe.”
“Is everything okay now?”
“Yeah, I'm just… I'm figuring some things out.”
“At your friend's house.”
“Correct.”
“Are you like in a crack den, or something?”
“No!” I yell, and just then President Armelio walks up
to me: “Hey, buddy, you want to play spades? I'll crush
you.”
“Not now, Armelio.”
“Who's that?” Nia asks.
“Leave him alone, he's talking with his girlfriend.”
Ebony taps Armelio with her cane.
“She's not my girlfriend,” I whisper at her.
“Who's that?”
“My friend Armelio.”
“No, the girl.”
“My friend Ebony.”
“Where are you, Craig?”
“I gotta go.”
“All right.. .” Nia trails her voice off. “I'm glad you're
doing .. . uh . .. better.”
“I'm doing a lot better,” I say.
She's done, I think. She's done, and you're done with
her.
“See ya, Craig.”
I hang up.
“I think that's over,” I say to myself.
Then I decide to announce it to the hall: “I think that
that's over!” Ebony stomps her cane, and Armelio
claps.
Something deep in my guts, below my heart, has made
a shift to the left and settled in a more comfortable
place. It's not the Shift, but it's a shift. I picture Nia
with her gorgeous face and little body and black hair 
and pouty lips and Aaron's hands all over her but also
with her pot smoking and the pimples on her forehead
and making fun of people all the time and the way she's
always so proud of how she's dressed. And I picture her
fading.
I play cards with Armelio in the dining room until
Bobby pokes his head in:
“Craig? It says on your door Dr. Mahmoud is your
doctor? He's making his rounds.”
Chapter Twenty-Six
“I don't want to be here,” I tell him at the entrance to
my room, where I catch him before he visits Muqtada.
“I don't think it's the place for me.”
“Of course not.” Dr. Mahmoud nods. He has on the
same suit he had on earlier in the day, although that
feels like last year. “If you liked it here, that would be a
very bad prognosis!”
“Right.” I chuckle. “Well, I mean, everybody's friendly,
but I feel a lot better, and I think I'm ready to go.
Maybe Monday? I don't want to miss school.”
Also, doc, right now the phone messages and e-mails
are bunching up and the rumors are flying. I just talked
to this girl—and I did okay—but the Tentacles are
coiled and the pressure is rising, getting ready to pounce
on me when I leave. If I'm in here too long, I'll have
that much more to do when I get out.
“We can't rush it,” Dr. Mahmoud says. “The important
thing is that you get better. If you try to leave too
soon—suddenly, everything is better?— we doctors get
suspicious.”
“Oh. Well, you don't want the doctor who can sign you
out of the psychiatric hospital getting suspicious.”
“Right. Right now, to me, you look much better, but
maybe this is a false recovery—”
“A Fake Shift.”
“I'm sorry?”
“A Fake Shift. That's what I call it. When you think
you've beaten it, but you haven't.”
“Exactly. We don't want one of those.”
“So I'm going to be here until I have the real Shift?”
“I don't follow.”
“I'm going to be here until I'm cured?”
“Life is not cured, Mr. Gilner.” Dr. Mahmoud leans in.
“Life is managed.”
“Okay.”
I'm apparently not as impressed by this as he would
like. He arches back: “We don't keep you here until you
are cured of anything; we keep you here until you are
stable—we call it ‘establishing the baseline.'”
“Okay, so when will my baseline be established?”
“Five days, probably.”
One, two, three … “Thursday? I can't wait until
Thursday, Doctor. I have too much school. That's four 
days of school. If I miss four days I will be so behind.
Plus, my friends. . .”
“Yes?”
“My friends will know where I am!”
“Aha. Is this a problem?”
“Yes!”
“Why?”
“Because I'm here!” I gesture out at the hall. Solomon
shuffles by very quickly in his sandals and tells
someone to be quiet, he's trying to rest.
“Mr. Gilner.” Dr. Mahmoud puts a hand on my
shoulder. “You have a chemical imbalance, that is all. If
you were a diabetic, would you be ashamed of where
you were?”
“No, but—”
“If you had to take insulin and you stopped, and you
were taken to the hospital, wouldn't that make sense?”
“This is different.”
“How?”
I sigh. “I don't know how much of it is really chemical.
Sometimes I just think depression's one way of coping
with the world. Like, some people get drunk, some 
people do drugs, some people get depressed. Because
there's so much stuff out there that you have to do
something to deal with it.”
“Ah. This is why you need to be in here longer, to talk
about these things,” Dr. Mahmoud says. “You have a
psychologist, correct? Have you called your
psychologist?”
Shoot. I knew I was forgetting something.
“You need to call; your psychologist will come here to
meet with you. What is her name? Or his?”
“Dr. Minerva.”
“Oh!” Dr. Mahmoud says; his lips curl into a far away
smile. “Wonderful. Get Andrea down here.”
“Andrea?” I never knew her first name. She keeps it
like a big secret. It's blanked out on all her degrees. She
says it's part of policy.
He waves his hand. “Make an appointment with her;
then we'll be that much closer to coming up with your
treatment plan and getting you out of here as soon as
possible. We will try for Thursday.”
“Not before Thursday.”
“No.”
“Thursday,” I mumble to myself, looking across the
room at Muqtada's prone lump.
“Five days, that's it! Everything will be fine, Mr.
Gilner. Your life will wait. You just participate in the
group activities and call Dr. Minerva. And when you
grow up to be rich and successful, you don't forget me,
okay?”
“Okay.”
“Can please you close the door?” Muqtada asks from
his bed.
“Mister Muqtada, you are the next: how come you are
always sleeping sleeping sleeping?”
Dr. Mahmoud walks past me. I call Mom to report the
news, and then I call Dr. Minerva. She says she's sorry
I took this turn for the worse, but it's always two-stepsforward, one-step-back.
“If this is my one step back,” I tell her, “what am I
going to do next: win the lottery and get my own TV
show?”
That'd be a good TV show, actually, I think. A guy
winning the lottery in the psych hospital.
Dr. Minerva can't come in tomorrow, because it's
Sunday, but she says she'll be in on Monday. I'm 
momentarily surprised by the distinction. In Six North,
there probably won't be much difference.
Chapter Twenty-Seven
“They say there's gonna be a pizza party tonight,”
Humble tells me at dinner. Dinner is chicken tenders
with potatoes and salad and a pear. I eat it all. “But they
say that every night.”
“What's a pizza party?”
“We all chip in the money and get pizza from the
neighborhood. It's tough, because no one ever has any
cash. It's like a big deal if we get pepperoni.”
“I have eight dollars.”
“Shhh. Don't go announcing it!” He stops chewing.
“People in here don't have any money. I don't have two
cents to rub together.”
I nod. “I never heard that one before.”
“No? You like it?”
“Yeah.”
“What about: I don't have a pot to piss in or a window
to throw it out of.”
“Nope.”
“What about: I got Jack and shit and Jack left town.”
“Heh. No! Where do you get them all?”
“From the old neighborhood. Gimme a ringy-ding.
Catch ya on the flipside. It's the best way to talk.”
“A ringy-ding, what's that—a call?”
“Don't ask yuppie questions.”
Humble scans the room for people to talk about. He
enjoys talking about other people—he just enjoys
talking, I've discovered, but he especially enjoys
talking about other people—and when he does so, he
puts on a peculiar sort of voice that's not quite a
whisper, but is pitched at such a low monotone that no
one notices it. He also seems able to throw it so it feels
like he's speaking into my left ear.
“So I suppose you've become familiar with our lovely
clientele here on the floor. President Armelio is the
president.” He nods over at Armelio, who has finished
his food first and is getting up to return the tray. “You
see how fast he eats? If you could harness a quarter of
his energy, you could power the island of Manhattan.
I'm not joking. He should really work in a place with
people like us. He has such a good heart and he's never
down.”
“So why is he in here?”
“He's psychotic, of course. You shoulda seen him when
they brought him in. He was screaming his head off
about his mom. He's Greek.”
“Huh.”
“Now there's Ebony, She of the Ass. That is def initely
the biggest ass I've ever seen. I'm not even into asses,
but if you were—man, you could lose yourself in there.
It's like its own municipality. I think that's why she
needs the cane. She's also the only woman I've ever
known who wears velvet pants; I think you have to
have a butt like that to wear velvet pants. They only
make them in extra extra extra large.”
“I didn't even notice them.”
“Well, give it a while. After a few days you start to
notice people's clothes, seeing as how they all wear the
same stuff every day.”
“Things don't get dirty?”
“They do laundry on Tuesdays and Fridays. Who gave
you your tour when you came in?”
“Bobby.”
“He should've told you that.” Humble swivels his head,
then turns back. “Now Bobby and Johnny"—they're at
a table together, as they were at lunch—"those two
were some of the biggest meth-amphetamine addicts in 
New York City, period, in the nineties. They were
called Fiend One and Fiend Two. The party didn't
really start until they showed up.”
That must've been such a feeling, even through all the
drugs, I think. To come into a house and have people
well up and greet you: “All right, man!” “You're here!”
“What's up?” That was probably as addictive as the
amphetamines. People sort of do that to Aaron.
“What happened to them?” I ask.
“What happens to anybody? They got burned out, lost
all their money, ended up here. Got no families, got no
women—well, I think Bobby has one.”
“He talks on the phone with her.”
“You can't tell from that. People pretend to be on the
phone all the time. Like her"—he pitches his head at the
bug-eyed woman who was standing behind me when I
was talking with my family— “The Professor. I've
caught her on the phone talking to Dr. Dial Tone. She's
a university professor. She ended up here because she
thinks someone tried to spray her apartment with
insecticide. She has newspaper clippings about it and
everything.”
Humble turns: “The black kid with the glasses: he looks
pretty normal, but he has it bad. You notice he doesn't
come out of his room a lot. That's because he's scared 
that gravity is going to reverse and he's going to fall up
into the ceiling. When he goes outside, he has to be near
trees so, in case the gravity stops, he'll have something
to hold on to. I think he's about seventeen. Have you
talked to him?”
“No.”
“He doesn't really talk. I don't know how much they
can do for him.”
The guy looks up at the ceiling fan above the dining
room, shudders, and forks food into his mouth.
“Then there's Jimmy. Jimmy's been here a lot. I've
been here twenty-four days, and I've seen him come
and go twice. You seem to like him.”
“We came in together.”
“He's a cool guy. And he has good teeth.”
“Yeah, I noticed that.”
“Pearly whites. Not a lot of people in here have that. I
myself wonder what happened to Ebony's teeth.”
“What's wrong with them?” I turn.
“Don't look. She has none, you didn't notice? She's on
a liquid diet. Just gums. I wonder if she sold ‘em, tooth
by tooth. …”
I bite my tongue. I can't help it. I shouldn't be laughing
at any of these people, and neither should Humble, but
maybe it's okay, somewhere, somehow, because we're
enjoying life? I'm not sure. Jimmy, two tables away,
notices my stifled laughter, smiles at me, and laughs
himself.
“I toldja: it come to ya!”
“There we go. What is going on in his mind?” Humble
asks.
I can't help it. It's too much. I crack up. Juice and
chicken tender bits spray my plate.
“Oh, I got you now,” Humble continues. “And here
comes the guest of honor: Solomon.”
The Hasidic Jewish guy comes in holding up his pants.
He still has food in his beard. He grabs his tray and
opens a microwaved packet of spaghetti and starts
shoveling it into his mouth, making slurping, gulping
groans.
“This guy eats once a day but it's like his last day on
earth,” Humble says. “I think he's the most far gone of
everybody. He's got like a direct audience with God.”
Solomon looks up, twists his head from side to side,
and resumes eating.
Humble drops to a true whisper. “He did a few hundred
tabs of acid and blew his pupils out. His eyeballs are
permanently dilated.”
“No way.”
“Absolutely. It's a certain cult of the Hasidics: the
Jewish Acid-Heads. There's like a part of their holy
writings that tells them it's the way to talk to God. But
he took it too far.”
Solomon gets up, leaves his tray disgustedly at the
table, and moves out of the room with alarming speed.
“He's like the Mole Man, back to his hole,” Humble
says. “The real Mole People are the anorexics; you
don't even see them.”
“How many people are in here?” I ask.
“They say twenty-five,” Humble says. “But that's not
counting the stowaways.”
I look around. Charles/Jennifer isn't in the room.
“Did the, uh, you know, Charles? Did he leave?”
“Yeah, the tranny's gone. Left this afternoon. Tranny
hit on you?”
“Yeah.”
“Smitty lets him do that. Gets a kick out of it.”
“I can't believe he's just gone. They don't, like, throw a
party for you when you leave?”
“No way. People here don't want to get out. Getting out
means going back to the streets or to jail or to try and
fish their things out of an impounded car, like me. Your
kind of situation, with the parents and a house: that's
rare. And also, with so many people coming and going,
we'd be nuts to try and have a party every time. We'd
end up like Fiend One and Fiend Two.”
My tray is a mess from the food spraying out. “You
crack me up, Humble,” I tell him.
“I know. I'm a great time for everybody. Too bad I'm
in here instead of onstage getting paid for it.”
“Why don't you try going onstage?”
“I'm old.”
“I have to get some napkins.” I rise and go out to
Smitty, who hands me a stack. I return, wipe off my
tray, and start in on the pear.
“You have a secret admirer,” Humble says. “I should've
guessed. I know how you operate.”
“What?”
“She was just here. Look at your chair.”
I get up and check it. There's a piece of paper lying
there, face down. I flip it around, and it says HOPE
YOU'RE HAVING A GOOD TIME. VISITING
HOURS ARE TOMORROW FROM 7:00-7:05 P.M. I
DON'T SMOKE.
“See? Your little girl with the cut-up face just left it.”
Humble gets up. “I had a feeling. Now you're starting
to look like a rival male. I might have to keep my eye
on you.”
He deposits his tray and gets in line for his meds. I fold
the paper up and put it in the pocket where my phone
used to be.
Chapter Twenty-Eight
“Craig! Hey buddy! Phone!”
I'm sitting with Humble outside the smoking lounge for
the 10 P.M. cigarette break, thinking about where I was
at the last 10 P.M.: just getting into Mom's bed.
Humble doesn't smoke, says it's disgusting, but
everyone else in here does, practically, including the
black guy who's afraid of gravity; and the big girl,
Becca, both of whom I thought were underage.
Armelio, Ebony, Bobby, Johnny, Jimmy … no matter
how nuts they all seem, they have no problem migrating
to the upper left of the H and sitting down on the
couches quietly to wait for their particular brand of
cigarettes, which I learn the hospital does not, in fact,
provide for them—they come in with the packs
themselves and the nurses keep them in a special tray.
Once they pull a cigarette out of their respective packs,
they walk single file through a red door, passing Nurse
Monica, whose job is to light everybody up. When the
door closes, the smell drifts out from under it and you
hear talking—everybody talking all at once, as if they
saved their words for a time when there was smoke to
send them through.
“How're you doing for your first day, Craig?” Nurse
Monica asked me five minutes ago, as she closed the
door. “You don't smoke, I see.”
“No.”
“That's good. Terrible habit. And it happens so much to
people your age.”
“A lot of my friends smoke. I just, you know . . . never
liked it.”
“I see you are adjusting quite well to the floor.”
“Yeah.”
“Good, good, that is so important. Tomorrow we're
going to talk more about your adjustment and your
situation and how you're feeling.”
“Okay.”
“You gotta watch out for this one,” Humble said. “He's
crafty.”
“Oh yeah?” Monica asked.
I was looking for the blond girl, Noelle—I had to
remember to meet her—but she wasn't around. Neither
was Solomon. Next to Humble was the woman he
identified as the Professor, watching us with her
bugged-out eyes. Unprompted, Humble started talking
with me and Monica about this old girlfriend of his, 
who had, in his words, “pig-tail nipples, like curly fries,
I kid you not.” Monica laughed and laughed. The
Professor said Humble was disgusting. Monica said it
was okay to laugh once in a while, and did she have a
story to share?
“Yeah, we all know you had some indiscretions in your
youth, Professor,” Humble prodded.
The Professor got a dreamy look in her eyes. I almost
thought she was going to have a seizure. And she said,
in a light little voice, with a nasal twinge: “I had a lot of
guys, but I only had one man.”
I was wondering where I'd heard that before, when
Armelio interrupted.
“C'mon buddy! Phone is for you!”
“Right.” I get up.
“You're lucky, buddy. It's after ten. They usually shut
the phone off at ten.”
Shut the phone off. I picture a big lever in my mind, a
man heaving it down.
“What happens if someone calls and the phone's off?”
“It just rings and rings,” Humble yells out, “and people
know they're not in Kansas anymore.”
I walk down the hall. The pay-phone receiver is
hanging and swaying. I pick it up.
“Hello?”
“Hey, is this the loony bin?” It's Aaron. It's Aaron,
high.
“How'd you get this number?” I ask. The man with the
beard, who I saw rocking in the dining room when I
first came in, is pacing the central hall, staring at me.
“My girl gave it to me, what do you think? What's it
like in there, dude?” Aaron asks.
“How do you know where I am?”
“I looked it up, man! You think I'm an idiot? I go to the
same school as you! I did a reverse number search and
found exactly where you are: Argenon Hospital, Adult
Psychiatric! Dude, how'd you get in adult? Do they
serve beer up there?”
“Aaron, c'mon.”
“I'm serious. How about girls? Are there any hot girls
around—ow!”
I hear laughing in the background, above rap. “Gimme
the phone!” Ronny's high-pitched bleat comes through
the line. “Lemme talk!”
Ronny comes into focus: “Dude, can you get me any
Vicodin?”
Howls. Howls of laughter. And in the background, Nia
protesting: “Guys, don't bother him.”
“Gimme—Craig, no, seriously.” Aaron is back on. “I'm
really sorry dude. I . . . just, how are you, man?”
“I'm . . . okay.” I'm starting to sweat.
“What happened?”
“I didn't have a good night, and I checked myself into
the hospital.”
“What's that mean, ‘didn't have a good night'?”
The man in my stomach is back, tugging at me. I want
to vomit through the phone.
“I'm depressed, okay, Aaron?”
“Yeah, I know, about what?”
“No, man, I'm depressed in general. I have like, clinical
depression.”
“No way! You're like the happiest guy I know!”
“What are you talking about?”
“That's a joke, Craig. You're like the craziest person I
know. Remember on the bridge? But, you know, the 
problem is you don't chill enough. Like even when
you're here, you're always worried about school or
something; you never just kick back and let things slide,
you know what I mean? We're having a party tonight—
where are you gonna be?”
“Aaron, who's in the room?”
“Nia, Ronny, Scruggs, uh .. . my friend Delilah.” I don't
even know Delilah.
“So all these people know where I am now.”
“Dude, we think it's awesome where you are! We want
to visit!”
“I can't believe you.”
“What?”
“I can't believe you're doing this.”
“Don't be a girl. You know if I was in the mental ward,
you'd call me up and rag on me a little. It's because
we're friends, man!”
“It's not a mental ward.”
“What?”
“It's a psychiatric hospital. It's for short-stay patients. A
mental ward is longer.”
“Well, clearly you've been there long enough to be an
expert. How long are you staying?”
“Until I have a baseline established.”
“What does that mean? Wait, I still don't get it: what
was wrong with you in the first place?”
“I told you, I'm depressed. I take pills for it like your
girlfriend.”
“Like my girlfriend?”
“Craig, shut up!” Nia yells in the background.
“My girlfriend doesn't take any pills,” Aaron says.
Ronny yells, “The only thing she takes is—” The rest is
cut off by laughter and I hear him getting hit with
something.
“Maybe you should talk to her a little more and figure
out what she's actually like,” I say. “You might learn
something.”
“You're telling me how to treat Nia now?” Aaron asks.
I hear him lick his lips. “What, like I don't know what
this is really about?”
“What, Aaron. What is it really about?”
“You want my girl, dude. You've wanted her for like
two years. You're mad that you didn't get her, and now 
you've decided to turn being mad into being depressed,
and now you're off somewhere, probably getting turned
into somebody's bitch, trying to play the pity card to get
her to end up with you … And I call you as a friend to
try and lighten your mood and you hit me with all of
this crap? Who do you think you are?”
“Yo, Aaron.”
“What.”
I'm going to do a trick Ronny showed me. He used to
do it a long time ago, and I think Aaron's forgotten it.
“Yo.”
“What?”
“Yo.”
“What?!”
“Yo, yo, yo, yo, yo—”
I pause. Hold it, hold it. . .
“Fuck you.“
And I slam the phone down.
It hits my finger and I go howling into my room, next to
Muqtada.
“What happened?” he asks.
“I don't have any friends,” I say, jumping and holding
my finger.
“This is tough thing to learn.”
I look out the window, through the blinds, into the
night. Now I'm really screwed. I run my finger under
cold water in our bathroom. I didn't think I could get
more screwed than last night, but here I am. I'm in a
hospital. I've sunk to the lowest place I can be. I'm in a
place where I'm not allowed to shave by myself—even
if I needed to shave biologically—because they're
worried that I'll use the razors on myself. And everyone
knows. I'm in a place where people have no teeth and
eat liquid food. And everyone knows. I'm in a place
where the guy I eat with lives in his car. And everyone
knows.
I can't function here anymore. I mean in life: I can't
function in this life. I'm no better off than when I was
in bed last night, with one difference: when I was in my
own bed—or my mom's—I could do something about
it; now that I'm here I can't do anything. I can't ride my
bike to the Brooklyn Bridge; I can't take a whole bunch
of pills and go for the good sleep; the only thing I can
do is crush my head in the toilet seat, and I still don't
even know if that would work. They take away your
options and all you can do is live, and it's just like
Humble said: I'm not afraid of dying; I'm afraid of
living. I was afraid before, but I'm afraid even more 
now that I'm a public joke. The teachers are going to
hear from the students. They'll think I'm trying to make
an excuse for bad work.
I get in bed and put the single topsheet over me. “This
sucks.”
“You are depressed?” Muqtada says.
“Yeah.”
“I, too, suffer from depression.”
I feel the Cycling starting again—I'm going to get out
of here at some point and have to go back into my real
life. This place isn't real. This is a facsimile of life, for
broken people. I can handle the facsimile, but I can't
handle the real thing. I'm going to have to go back to
Executive Pre-Professional and deal with teachers and
Aaron and Nia because what the hell else do I know? I
staked everything on that stupid test. What else am I
good at?
Nothing. I'm good at nothing.
I get up and go to the nurses'station.
“I'm not going to be able to sleep.”
“You're not able to sleep?” The nurse is a white-haired
little old lady with glasses.
“No, I know I'm not going to be able to sleep,” I
respond. “I'm taking preemptive action.”
“We have a sedative, called Atavan. It's injectable. It'll
relax you and make you sleep.”
“Let's do it,” I say, and with Smitty's supervision, over
by the phones, I sit down and have a small needle
attached to what looks like a butterfly clip stuck in my
arm. I stare forward as something yellow is pumped
into me and then I stumble off into my room—stumble
because I can feel it hitting me even as I get up from the
chair. It's some kind of powerful muscle relaxant, and
loving hands pull me down as I crash into bed past
Muqtada, but the last thought I have before I go to sleep
is:
Great, soldier, now you're depressed and in the hospital
and a drug addict. And everyone knows.
Chapter Twenty-Nine
I'm awakened by a guy in light blue scrubs taking my
blood. That's an interesting way to wake up. The guy
comes into the room with a cart—carts are very popular
here—as light creeps through the blinds.
“I need your bloods. For downstairs.”
“Uh, okay.”
I present my arm. I'm too beat to ask any questions. He
takes a little bit of blood expertly through the back of
my hand under my middle-finger knuckle—doesn't
leave any kind of mark—and rolls along, leaving
Muqtada asleep, or awake and paralyzed by life; it's
tough to tell. I want to get more sleep, but once you've
been stuck you're inclined to get up, so I move out of
bed and take a shower with the hospital-provided towels
and my parent-provided shampoo and the generic soap
that I pump out of the wall. The shower is searing and
wonderful, but 1 don't want to stay too long—I have to
break my habit of languishing in the bathroom—so I
dry off and drop my stuff back at the nurses'station.
Smitty isn't there; instead there's a big guy who
introduces himself as Harold and tells me to dump the
towels in a hamper that looks just like a garbage can by
the dining room, something that I know I've seen
Humble and Bobby dump apple cores and banana peels
into.
“Hey, buddy, you're up!” Armelio calls out, bounding
down the hall at me. “How'd you sleep?”
“Not good. I needed a shot.”
“That's okay, buddy, we all need shots once in a
while.”
“Heh.” I crack the day's first smile. Armelio uncorks
one of his own.
“It's time to wake everyone up for vitals,” he says,
treading down the hall. “All right, everybody! Vitals!
Time to take your vitals!”
A caravan of my fellow bleary mental patients— or
wait, I think we're called in-patient psychiatric
treatment recipients, technically—emerge from their
compartments, rubbing their eyes and staggering as if
they have a job to get to and they just need that first cup
of coffee. Surprised by my good fortune, I put myself at
the front of the line and become the first to get my
blood pressure and pulse taken. 120/80. I continue to be
the picture of health.
“Craig?” Harold, the big guy, asks when everyone is
done.
“Yeah?”
“You haven't been filling out your menus.”
“What are those?”
“Every day, you're supposed to put down what sort of
meals you want. On one of these.”
He holds up what looks like a placemat, with columns
of food: Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner.
“You should have gotten this in your welcome packet
the nurse gave you.”
Ah, the one I completely ignored. I nod.
“I just. . . didn't. ..”
“It's okay, but if you don't mark up your menus, you're
going to get a meal we pick for you every time. So fill
one out for lunch and dinner today. For breakfast you're
going to have to have one of the omelets.”
I put my elbows down on the desk and eye the menu
choices: hamburger, fish nuggets, French-cut beans,
turkey with stuffing, fresh fruit, pudding, oatmeal,
orange juice, milk 4oz, milk 8oz, 2% milk, skim milk,
tea, coffee, hot chocolate, split pea soup, minestrone
soup, fruit salad, cottage cheese, bagel, cream cheese,
butter, jelly… highly processed food. I'm not going to
have a problem eating this. My eyes swim over the
choices.
“Circle what you want,” Harold explains. I start
circling.
“If you want two of anything, put two-x by it.” I start
putting 2xs.
I wish the world were like this, if I just woke up and
marked the food I'd be eating and it came to me later in
the day. I suppose it is like that, except you have to pay
for whatever you want to eat, so maybe what I'm asking
for is communism, but I think it's actually deeper than
communism—I'm asking for simplicity, for purity and 
ease of choice and no pressure. I'm asking for
something that no politics is going to provide,
something that probably you only get in preschool. I'm
asking for preschool.
“After breakfast, fill one out for tomorrow,” Harold
says as I hand in my menu.
Breakfast comes to the dining room and the omelet is
like a science experiment: is the lack of cheese
explained by the mysterious holes that dot the alleged
egg?
“Your first omelet,” Bobby says. Today, for a change, I
sit with him instead of Humble. Johnny rounds out the
table.
“It's really gross.” I pick at it.
“It's like a rite of passage,” Johnny says. He speaks
slowly and without any accents in his words.
‘"Everyone must eat the omelet.'”
“Yeah, you're in now,” Bobby says.
“Huh.” Johnny exhales.
“How did everybody sleep?” I try.
“I'm anxious, real anxious,” Bobby says.
“Why?”
“I've got that interview tomorrow, with the adult
home.”
“What's that?”
“Huh.” Johnny exhales. “It's where people like us live.”
“It's a place like this, basically, except you have to hold
a job,” Bobby explains. “You don't need a pass to
leave; you can leave whenever you want, but you have
to prove you're employed and be back by seven
o'clock.”
“Wait, you can leave here with a pass?”
“Yeah, once you have five days inside, they have to
give you a pass if you ask for it.”
“I'm gonna try and be out in five days.”
“Huh,” Johnny exhales. “Good luck.”
I start in on my orange, which is about two hundred
times more edible than the omelet. “Why are you
nervous about the interview?” I ask Bobby.
“Anxious, not nervous. It's different. It's medical.”
“Why are you anxious, then? I'm sure you'll get in.”
“You can't be sure of a thing like that. And if I mess it
up, I've got problems: I've been here too long; my
coverage isn't going to last. Once you're giving the 
tours, it's really time to leave.” He takes a slow bite of
oatmeal. “The last place wouldn't let me in because I'm
too much of a picky eater. It's not like this place. You
can't pick your food.”
“So now you know what not to say!” I point out.
“Yeah, that's true.”
“See, when you mess something up,” I muse, “you
learn for the next time. It's when people compliment
you that you're in trouble. That means they expect you
to keep it up.”
Bobby nods. “Very, very true.”
“Huh, yeah,” Johnny says. “My mom was always
complimenting me, and look how I turned out.”
“This kid has some promise.” Bobby laughs. “He's on
the level.”
“Huh, yeah, on the level. You play guitar, kid?”
“No.”
“Johnny here's a great guitarist,” Bobby says. “Really
great. He had a deal in the eighties.”
“Oh yeah?”
“Shhh,” Johnny says. “It ain't nothin'.”
Bobby continues: “He can play better than the guy they
bring in here to play for us. But he's a cool guy, that
guy.”
“Yeah, he's on the level.”
“He's on the level. Is he coming in today for group?”
“That's tomorrow. Today is art.”
“With Joanie.”
“Right.”
Bobby sips his coffee. “If there wasn't coffee on this
earth, I'd be dead.”
I scan the room: everyone's here but Solomon, the
Anorexics (who I've now seen peeking out of their
rooms like, literally, skeletons in closets), and Noelle. I
wonder where she is. She didn't show up for vitals.
Maybe she's out on a pass. I hope she'll be around
tonight for our date. Technically, it'll be my first date.
“You know, I'll tell you why I'm really anxious,”
Bobby pipes up, leaning in over his coffee. “It's this
stupid shirt.” He pushes forward his Marvin the Martian
WORLD DOMINATOR sweatshirt. “How'm I gonna
do an interview in this?”
“Huh.” Johnny exhales. “Never underestimate the
power of Marvin.”
“Shhh, man. I'm serious.”
“I have shirts,” I say.
“What?” Bobby looks up.
“I have shirts. I'll lend you a shirt.”
“What? You would do that?”
“Sure. What size are you?”
“Medium. What are you?”
“Uh, child's large.”
“What is that in normal?” Bobby turns to Johnny.
“I didn't even know children had sizes,” Johnny says.
“I think it would fit,” I stand up. Bobby gets up next to
me and, although his posture is way different—
backward, really—he looks like a decent match.
“I have a blue-collared shirt that my mom makes me
wear to church every week. I can have her bring it.”
“Today? The interview's tomorrow.”
“Yeah. No problem. She's two blocks away.”
“You would do that for me?”
“Sure!”
“All right,” Bobby says. We shake hands. “You're
really on the level. You're a good person.” We look into
each other's eyes as we shake. His are still full of death
and horror, but in them I see my face reflected, and
inside my tiny eyes inside his, I think I see some hope.
“Good person,” Johnny echoes. Bobby sits down. I put
my tray back in the cart and Humble comes up behind
me.
“You didn't sit with me, I'm very hurt,” he says. “I
might have to jump you for your lunch money later.”
Chapter Thirty
Nurse Monica brings me into the same office that I was
interviewed in the day before, to ask me how I'm
adjusting. I look at the white walls and the table where
she showed me the pain chart and think that I've
actually come kind of far since yesterday; I've eaten
and slept; you can't deny that. Eating and sleeping will
do a body good. I needed the shot, though.
“How are we feeling today?” she asks.
“Fine. Well, I couldn't sleep last night. I had to take a
shot.”
“I saw on your chart. Why do you think you couldn't
sleep?”
“My friends called. They were kind of . . . making fun
of my whole situation.”
“And why would they do that?”
“I don't know.”
“Maybe they are not your friends.”
“Well, I told them . . . ‘Screw you,'basically. The main
one, Aaron. I told him ‘Screw you.'”
“Did that make you feel good?”
I sigh. “Yeah. There was a girl too.”
“Who would that be?”
“Nia. One of the friends.”
“And her?”
“I'm done with her, too.”
“So you made a lot of big decisions on your first day
here.”
“Yes.”
“This happens to many people: they come and make big
decisions. Sometimes they are good decisions,
sometimes bad.”
“Well, I hope good, obviously.”
“Me too. How do you feel about the decisions?”
I picture Nia and Aaron dissolving, replaced by Johnny
and Bobby.
“It was the right thing to do.”
“Wonderful. Now, you've made some new friends here
as well, isn't that true?”
“Sure.”
“I noticed you talking with Humboldt Koper outside the
smoking lounge last night.”
“Is that his real name?” I laugh. “Yeah, well, right, you
were talking, too. We all were.”
“Yes. Now, you might not want to become so friendly
with your fellow patients on the floor.”
“Why not?”
“That can distract people from the healing process.”
“How?”
“This is a hospital. It's not a place to make friends.
Friends are wonderful, but this place is about you and
making you feel better.”
“But …” I fidget. “I respect Humble. I respect Bobby. I
have more respect for them after a day and a half than I
do for most people … in the world, really.”
“Just be careful of forming close relationships, Craig.
Focus on yourself.”
“Okay.”
“Only then does healing take place.”
“All right.”
Nurse Monica leans back with her moon face.
“As you know, we have certain activities on the floor.”
“Right.”
“On your first day you are excused from activities, but
after that you are expected to attend on a daily basis.”
“Okay.”
“That means you start today. This is an opportunity for
you to explore your interests. So I ask you: what are
your hobbies?”
Bad question, Monica.
“I don't have any.”
“Aha. None at all?”
“No.”
I work, Monica, and 1 think about work, and I freak out
about work, and I think about how much I think about
work, and I freak out about how much I think about
how much I think about work, and I think about how
freaked out I get about how much I think about how
much I think about work. Does that count as a hobby?
“I see.” She takes some notes. “So we can put you in
any activity group.”
“I guess.”
“And you'll go?”
“Can I play cards with Armelio in the groups?”
“No.”
“Will participating in them get me out of here on
Thursday?”
“I cannot say for sure. But not participating will be
viewed as a step back in the healing process.”
“Okay. Sign me up.”
Nurse Monica marks a sheet in her lap. “Your first
activity will be arts and crafts this evening, before
dinner, with Joanie in the activity lounge, which is
through the doors behind the nurses'station.”
“I thought those doors didn't open.”
“We can open them, Craig.”
“When does it start?”
“Seven.”
“Oh. I won't be there exactly at seven.”
“Why's that?”
“I have to meet with someone at seven.”
“A visitor?”
“Sure,” I lie.
“A friend?”
“Well, yeah. So far. I hope so.”

Chapter Thirty-One
At 6:55 P.M. I position myself at the end of the hall
where I met with my parents yesterday and again
today—around three, without Sarah this time; she was
at a friend's house. Dad didn't crack any jokes and
Mom brought the shirt for Bobby, who shook her hand
and told her Your son is great and she told him she
knew that. Dad asked whether we got to watch movies,
and I told him that we did, but that since so many
people were older, it was really boring movies with
Cary Grant and Greta Garbo and stuff, and he asked if I
wouldn't enjoy him bringing over Blade II on DVD.
And I checked with Howard and it turned out the
hospital had a DVD player like everyone else in the
world and so Dad and I made a date for Wednesday
night, in three days, when he didn't have to work late.
He'd come by with Blade II and we'd all watch it.
The place I'm sitting in is the part of the H that mirrors
the part next to the smoking lounge; Noelle said she
didn't smoke, so I think she wants to meet here. I didn't
tell my parents about her. I did tell them that I talked to
my friends, that it didn't go well, but that they were
probably part of the problem anyway and it was good to
stay away from them for a while. Mom said she knew
my friends smoked pot and they were probably a bad
influence anyway. Dad said Now you yourself haven't 
smoked pot, right, Craig? and I told him no, no I hadn't,
not before the SATs like he told me. And we all
laughed.
They asked how I was eating and I told them I was
eating fine, which was true.
They asked how I was sleeping and I told them I was
sleeping fine, which I hoped would be true tonight.
Now I sit with my legs crossed, only I think that looks
weird, so I uncross them, only now I'm cold and
nervous, so I cross them again. Right at 7:00 P.M.
Noelle, in the same clothes I saw her in yesterday—
dark Capri pants and a white wife-beater— comes down
the hall.
She sits in the chair next to me and moves the hair away
from her face with small fingers with no nail polish on
them.
“You came,” she says.
“Well, yeah, you passed me a note. That's like the first
time a girl passed me a note.” I smile. I try to sit up and
look good in my chair.
“We're going to make this quick,” she says. “And it's
going to be a game.”
“Five minutes, right?”
“Right. Here's the game: it's just questions. I ask you a
question, and you ask me a question.”
“Okay. Do you have to answer?”
“If you want, you can answer. But no matter what, you
have to end with another question.”
“So we're trading questions. Like twenty questions.
Why do we have to talk like this?”
“It's the best way to get to know a person. And in five
minutes we can do way more than twenty questions. If
we don't dilly-dally. I'm starting. Ready?”
I concentrate. “Yeah.”
“No, answer with a question. Don't tell me you're
stupid. Are you stupid?”
“No!” I shake my head. “Uh … are you ready?”
“There you go. We're on. First question: Do you think
I'm gross-looking?”
Gosh, she cuts right to the chase. I look her over. I'm a
little ashamed of how I do it, because I look at her from
the bottom up, like I would if she were on the Internet. I
look at her feet ending in simple black sneakers and her
small ankles and her pale lower legs and the indentation
in the Capri pants where the pants start, under her knee,
and up her body to her small waist and then the sharp 
bulge of her breasts and then her neck, coming through
the uneven, distended neckline of her wife-beater, and
her small chin and lips. The cuts on her face line her
cheeks and forehead: little parallel slashes, three
together in each place, with clumps of white skin on the
ends where they're healing. They don't look like very
deep cuts, and they're thin—I have a feeling that when
they heal up she'll look just fine. And she's beautiful.
No question. Her eyes are green and knowing.
“No, you look awesome,” I say.
“What's your question?”
“Uh, why did you pass me the note?”
“I thought you were interesting. Why did you do what it
said?”
“I …” I can't think up a fake answer quickly enough.
“I'm a straight guy, you know. So if a girl talks to me or
whatever, I'll do exactly what she says.” Wait, now:
make it a compliment. “Especially if it's a pretty girl.” I
smile.
“You're not very good at this game. What's your
question?”
“Oh. Right. Ah . . . are you straight?”
She sighs. “Yes. Don't get too excited. You don't have
a boner, do you?”
“No! “ I cross my legs. “No. So . . . how'd you get
here?”
“Oh, that's a big one. Crossing the line. What do you
think?”
“Someone came in on you while you were cutting your
face?”
“Ding ding ding! Afterward, actually. I was bleeding all
over the sink. How'd you get here?”
“I checked myself in. When did you get here?”
“Why did you check yourself in? Twenty-one days ago.
Whoops. Reverse those. Pretend I ended with the
question.” She rubs her arms.
“I wasn't doing well. I called, you know, the Suicide
Hotline, and they told me to come here. Why have you
been here so long?”
“They're not sure I won't hurt myself again. What
medication are you on?”
“Zoloft. What about you?”
“Paxil. Where do you live?”
“Around here. Where do you live?”
“Manhattan. What do your parents do?”
“My mom designs greeting cards and my dad works in
health insurance. What about yours?”
“My mom's a lawyer and my dad's dead. Do you want
to know how he died?”
“I'm sorry. How? Do I want to know?”
“That's two questions. Yes, you do. He died fishing. He
fell off a boat. Isn't that the stupidest thing you ever
heard?”
“No. Not by a long shot” I say. “You want to know
what I think is the stupidest way to die?”
“What?”
“Auto-erotic asphyxiation. You know what that is?”
“When people put ropes around themselves while
they're jerking off, right?”
“Right. I read about it in the DSM. Have you ever read
the DSM?”
“The big book of psych disorders?”
“Yeah!”
“Of course. Have you ever heard of Ondine's Curse?”
“Oh my God! I thought I was the only one who knew
about that. Where you forget how to breathe. Uh . . .
where did you first see the DSM?”
“On my shrink's bookshelf. You?”
“Same. You call them ‘shrinks'too?”
“That's what they are, right?”
“What does that even mean?”
“I think ‘headshrinks,'because they shrink people's
heads. You think I have all the answers?”
I stop. I need a break. I put my hands on my knees and
rock forward. This game is hard. “Is your name really
Noelle?”
“Why wouldn't it be?”
“After the whole thing at lunch yesterday, I don't know
what to believe. Do you know what my name is?”
“Of course. Craig Gilner. You think I'm an idiot?”
“How'd you know my last name?”
“I read your bracelet. You want to read mine?”
“'Noelle Hinton.'Hey …” I think, “So here's one: Did
you know what was going to happen at lunch
yesterday?”
“With ‘Jennifer'? Of course. He does that to everybody.
What I'm curious about is this: why'd you come over?”
“I thought she—uh, he—was, y'know, a girl. And I got
asked—”
“Why did you come here?''
“Wait, I forgot to ask you a question.”
“That's okay. You have one point. Why'd you come
here?”
“Um, I thought I said: because you're a girl. And you
asked me. And you seem cool?” You already said she's
beautiful; now show you're not shallow and say she's
cool.
“Watching you try and answer these questions right is
hilarious. You're a silly boy. You know you're silly,
right?”
Noelle leans back and stretches. Her hair falls away
from her face and her cuts scream up into the light. The
lines of her wife-beater echo her hair.
“You know those cuts on your face really aren't that
bad?”
“How long have I been here, Craig?”
“You told me twenty-one days. Is that true?”
“Yeah. Can you imagine what they looked like when I
came in?”
“Are they going to scar?”
“I have to have surgery to clear them up. You think I
should?”
“No. Why hide what you've been through?”
“I don't know if that's really a question. It's too
obvious. Wouldn't I be happier without scars?”
“I don't know. It's tough to tell what would make you
happy. I thought I'd be happier in a really tough high
school, and I ended up here. Wait, where do you go to
school?”
“Delfin.” That's a private school in Manhattan; I think
it's the last one where they have to wear uniforms.
“You?”
“Executive Pre-Professional. Do you have to wear
uniforms?”
“Are you like a school-uniform pervert?”
“No. Well. . . no.”
“Two points. You didn't ask a question. Do you like
this game?”
“I like talking to you. It's like a math problem. Do you
like talking to me?”
“It's all right. Do you like math?”
“I thought I was good at it, but it turns out I'm a year
behind everybody else. You?”
“I'm bad in school. I spend most of my time in ballet.
But I'm not tall enough for that. Have you ever been not
tall enough for anything?”
“Maybe some rides, when I was a little kid. Why?”
“I'm still too short for those rides. It sucks to be short.
Remember that.” She stops.
“One point for you.”
“That's three for you. Game over.”
“Okay, cool.” I sit back in my seat. “Phew. What now?”
“That's a good question. I have no idea. I've got to go
to arts and crafts.”
“Me too.”
“You want to go together?”
“Sure.” I stop. That's a come-on, isn't it? “Can we . . .
uh . . . can I like kiss you or whatever?”
Noelle leans back and laughs and laughs. “No you can't
kiss me! What, you think we play the game once and
you get to kiss me?”
“Well, I thought we had a thing going.”
“Craig.” She leans in and looks me right in the eyes.
“No.” She smiles. The cuts crinkle.
“Do you know when you're leaving?” I ask.
“Thursday.”
My heart jumps. “Me too.” I start to lean forward—
“No. No, Craig. Arts and crafts.”
“Okay.” I get up. I hold out my hand for Noelle. She
ignores it.
“Race you!” she says, and sprints down the hall into the
activity lounge, with me following, trying to keep up—
how can I not, when my legs are so much longer? Does
ballet teach you to run? Howard yells at us as we pass
the nurses'station—"Kids! Kids! No running on the
floor!"—but I really don't care.
Chapter Thirty-Two
“So who here likes to draw-awww?” Joanie asks. Joanie
is a big smiling lady with lots of makeup and bracelets.
She rules the activity lounge, which is exactly like the
art room I had when I was in kindergarten. There are
patient-contributed paintings of hamburgers and dogs
and kites on the walls and then there are posters—
OBSTACLES ARE THOSE FRIGHTENING THINGS
THAT APPEAR WHEN WE TAKE OUR MIND OFF
OUR GOALS; DREAMS ARE ONLY DREAMS
UNTIL YOU WAKE UP AND MAKE THEM REAL;
THINGS I HAVE TO DO TODAY: 1) BREATHE IN
2) BREATHE OUT.
The alphabet, thankfully, is nowhere to be seen; if I saw
Aa Bb I'd probably start the Cycling again. There is one
interesting poster: PEOPLE WITH MENTAL
ILLNESS CONTRIBUTE TO OUR WORLD. It lists
Abraham Lincoln, Ernest Hemingway, Winston
Churchill, Isaac Newton, Sylvia Plath, and a bunch of
other smart people who were kind of nuts.
It's depressing, though. I mean, this room is what I
expect a mental hospital to look like. Adults reduced to
children, sitting with finger paints; a jolly supervisor
telling them that everything they do is great. But isn't 
this what I was asking for when I was filling out my
menus?
You wanted preschool, soldier, you got preschool.
I wanted the comfort of preschool, not the ambience.
You gotta take the good with the bad. Like your little
chicky here. I bet you didn't think you'd come in here
and find a fine filly like that.
Well, she's not a filly.
I have a feeling filly means girlfriend. I look at Noelle.
We're trying to decide where to sit.
I only talked with her once.
She likes you, boy, and if you can't tell that, you aren't
going to be able to tell a rifle from a cap gun in this
war.
What war is that, again?
The one you're fighting with your own head.
Right, how are we doing?
You're making gains, soldier, can't you see that?
Noelle and I sit with Humble and the Professor.
“I see you two have made each other's acquaintance,”
Humble says.
“Leave them alone,” the Professor says.
“Where were you?” Humble continues. “Were you in a
tree, K-I-S-S-I-N-G?”
“No.”
“Nothing's happening,” Noelle says.
“We're just sitting together,” I say.
‘"Craig and No-elle, sitting in a tree—'” He gets up and
puts his hands on his hips, sashaying.
“Hold on, now, what's going on here?” Joanie comes
over. “Is there a problem, Mr. Koper?”
“No. What? What are you talking about?” He holds up
his hands, sits down. “You mean me?”
Joanie scoffs and announces: “This is free-period arts
recreational therapy, for all you latecomers!” Humble
points at me and Noelle, making a little shame on you
gesture. “That means you can draw whatever you feel
like. It's a great chance to explore your creativity and
find out what you like to do for leisure! Leisure is very
important!”
Joanie comes up behind me when she's done
announcing: “You're new. Hi, my name is Joanie. I'm
the recreation director.”
“Craig,” I shake her hand.
“You want pencil and paper, Craig?”
“No. I don't have anything to do. I can't draw.”
“Sure you can. It doesn't have to be representative. You
can do abstract. Do you want crayons?”
“No.” God, it's so embarrassing. Being asked if you
want crayons.
“How about paints?”
“I told you, I can't draw.”
“Paints are for painting, not drawing.”
“Well, I can't do that either.”
“What about markers?”
“No.”
“Everyone?” Joanie turns to the room. “Our new guest,
Craig, has what we call an artistic block. He doesn't
have anything to draw!”
“That's too bad, buddy!” Armelio yells from his table.
“You want to play cards?”
“Armelio, no cards in here. Now, can anyone give Craig
something he can draw?”
“Fish!” Bobby yells out. “Fish are easy.”
“Pills,” Johnny says.
“Johnny,” Joanie admonishes. “We do not draw pills.”
“Salad,” says Ebony.
“She wants you to draw it, but she sure as hell can't eat
it,” Humble guffaws.
“Mister Koper! That's it. Please leave the room.”
“Ohh-hhhhhh,” everybody says.
“That's right!” Ebony calls. She makes the umpire
gesture. “You're outta here!”
“Fine,” Humble stands up. “Whatever. Blame me.
Blame the guy who has total respect for everybody
else.” He gathers his things, which is nothing, and steps
out of the activity lounge. “You're all a bunch of
yuppies!”
I watch him go.
“You can draw a cat!” the guy who's afraid of gravity
says. “I used to have one. It died.”
“Rolling pin,” the bearded man says. It's the first words
I've heard him say since I saw him in the dining room
on my way in. He still rocks and he still paces the halls
whenever he isn't shuttled into a room.
“What was that, Robert?” Joanie asks. “That's very
good. What did you say?”
But he clams up. He won't say it again. Rolling pin. I
wonder what that means to him. If I had one thing to
say, I don't think it would be rolling pin. It would
probably be sex. Or Shift.
“He can draw something from his childhood,” Noelle
says next to me.
“Oh, there's a good one. Noelle, you want to speak
up?”
She sighs, then announces to the room: “Craig can draw
something from his childhood.”
“That's right,” Joanie nods. “Craig, do you like any of
these suggestions?”
But I'm already gone. I've got the river started at the
top of the page, looping down to meet with a second
river. No, wait, you have to put in the roads first,
because the bridges go over the water, remember?
Highways first, then rivers, then streets. It's all coming
back to me. How long has it been since I did this? Since
I was nine? How could I forget? I slash a highway
across the center of the page and make it meet with
another in a beautiful spaghetti interchange. One ramp
goes off the junction through a park and ends in a circle,
a nice hubbub of residential activity. The blocks start
out from there. The map is forming. My own city.
“Oh, somebody got Craig's mind unblocked!” Joanie
announces from the other end of the room. I glance
back. Ebony, who's been sitting over there, goes
through the arduous process of getting up with her cane
and walks toward me. “I want to see.”
“Huh, thanks Ebony,” I say, turning back to the map.
She looks over my shoulder. “Oooh that's pretty,” she
says.
“What is it?” Armelio yells.
“Let's not yell across the room,” Joanie says.
“That is extraordinary,” the Professor says next to me.
“I deserve half-credit,” says Noelle, sketching out a
flower to my right. She glances at me through the sides
of her eyes. “You know I do.”
“You do,” I tell her, taking a break to look at her. I go
back to the map. It's flowing out of me.
“Is that somebody's brain?” Ebony asks.
I look up at her, rolling her mouth and smiling down. I
look at the map. It's not a brain, clearly; it's a map;
can't she see the rivers and highways and interchanges?
But I see how it could look like a brain, like if all roads
were twisted neurons, pulling your emotions from one
place to another, bringing the city to life. A working 
brain is probably a lot like a map, where anybody can
get from one place to another on the freeways. It's the
nonworking brains that get blocked, that have dead
ends, that are under construction like mine.
“Yeah,” I say, nodding up at her. “Yeah. That's exactly
what it is. It's a brain.” And I stop my map in the
middle—this was always a problem for me, finishing
the damn things; I always ran out of energy before I got
to the edge of the page—and draw a head around it. I
put a nose and two paired indentations for lips and a
neck running down. I draw the head so that right where
the brain would be is this blob of city street map. I
make a traffic circle the eye and bring down boulevards
to lead to the mouth, and Ebony giggles above me, taps
her cane.
“It's so pretty!”
“It's all right,” I say, looking down. I decide it's done. I
can do better. I put my initials in the bottom—CG, like
“computer-generated"—and put the picture aside. I ask
for more paper and start the next one.
It's easy. It's easy and pretty and I can do it. I can make
these things forever. For the rest of arts and crafts, I
make five.
I get so concentrated that I don't even notice when
Noelle leaves. I only find her note, sitting next to me, 
decorated with a flower, as I gather up my things from
the room.
I'M TAKING A BREAK FROM YOU. CAN'T GET
TOO ATTACHED. THE NEXT MEETING WILL BE
TUESDAY, SAME TIME AND PLACE. DON'T BE
WORRIED THAT IT'S SUCH A LONG WAIT. I
THINK YOU'RE LOVELY.
I fold the note and put it in my pocket next to the other
one. After arts and crafts is dinner, where Humble tells
me he forgives me for getting him in trouble, and I
thank him, and after dinner is cards with Armelio, who
tells me that now that I've gotten a little experience
under my belt, I might be ready for the big card
tournament they're having tomorrow night.
“Do you play with real money?” I ask.
“Nope, buddy! We play with buttons!”
I hang outside the lounge during cigarette break—I
basically just follow the group; wherever they go, I
go—and talk with Bobby about my day. Then I go into
my room with my map/brain art. My bed hasn't been
made during the day—they don't pamper you in Six
North—but the pillow has returned to its normal shape,
no longer dented in by my sweaty head, and when I lie
down it lets out air in the most slow, soothing hiss I've
ever heard.
“You are feeling better?” Muqtada asks.
“Quite a bit,” I say. “You've really got to get out of the
room more, Muqtada. There's a whole world out there.”
“I pray every day that someday I will get better like
you.”
“I'm not that much better, man.”
But I'm good enough to sleep. No shot necessary.
Chapter Thirty-Three
The next day is Monday and I should be at school.
I shouldn't be eating with Humble and hearing about
what his girlfriend used to do to him every time they
passed a Burger King. I should be at school.
I shouldn't be explaining to Ebony's friend on the
phone that what I drew was a map of a human brain and
having her echo “He's so good, Marlene, he's so good.”
I should be at school.
I shouldn't be taking my Zoloft in line behind Bobby,
who is dressed in my shirt for his interview. I should be
at school.
I work up the courage to get to the phones at 11 A.M.
and check the messages.
“Hey, Craig, it's Aaron, listen, I'm really sorry, man.
The truth is, I probably—well, I got in a big fight with
Nia after you told me she was on pills and . . . I think I
might have some of that depression stuff, too. Lately,
I've been like, unable to get out of bed sometimes and
I'm just… y'know, really sleepy and I lose my train of
thought. So like, I probably called you the other night
like that because I was projecting, that's what Nia says,
and I'm seriously interested in visiting you. Me and Nia
are having problems.”
I call him back and leave a message for him. I tell him
that if he feels depressed, he should go to his general
physician first and get a referral to a psychopharmacologist and go through the process like I
did. I tell him that it's nothing to be ashamed of. I tell
him I'm glad he called but I don't know whether he
should visit because I'm really sorting my stuff out here
and I think I'd like to keep in here and the outside world
as separate as possible. And I ask him what's going on
between him and Nia, whether they made up yet.
“Hello, Craig, this is Mr. Reynolds again—”
I call him back and leave a message that I'm in the
hospital for personal reasons and that he'll have his labs
when I'm good and ready to do them. I tell him that I'll 
provide any documentation from doctors—including
psychopharmacologists, psychiatrists, psychologists,
nurses, recreation directors, and President Armelio—
that I am being cared for right now in a facility where
the stresses of doing labs are not allowed. And I tell
him that if he wants to talk to me again, he can call the
number here, and don't be alarmed if someone answers
“Joe's Pub.”
“Hey, Craig, this is Jenna, I'm one of Nia's friends, and
like … okay, this is really embarrassing, but do you
want to hang out anytime soon? I heard about all this
stuff you went through, like you're in the hospital or
whatever, and my last boyfriend was really insensitive
about that stuff, because I kind of go through that stuff
too? And so I thought you'd probably understand me,
and I always thought you were cute—we met each other
a couple times—but I always thought that you were so
shy that you wouldn't be fun to hang out with; I didn't
realize you were like, depressed. And I think that's
really brave of you to admit it and I just think we
should hang out.”
Well. I call Jenna back and leave her a message that I
can hang out with her next week maybe.
That's it. The other messages are from Ronny and
Scruggs and they're about pot and I ignore them. I put
the phone down without slamming it on my finger.
Muqtada is right in front of me.
“I follow your advice. Come out of room.”
“Hey, good morning! How are you?”
He shrugs. “Okay. What is to do?”
“There's lots of stuff to do. Do you like to draw?”
“Eh.”
“Do you like to play cards?'
“Eh.”
“Do you like to . .. listen to music?”
“Yes.”
“Great! Okay—”
“Only Egypt music.”
“Huh.” I try to think of where I can get Egyptian music,
or even what it's called, when suddenly Solomon flops
past in his sandals.
“Excuse me if you please I am trying to rest!” he yells
at us. Muqtada takes one look at him and curls his face
into a laugh, his glasses rising above his nose.
“What is the problem?” Solomon asks.
“Seventeen days!” Muqtada says. “Seventeen days the
Jew will not talk to me! And now he does. I am
honored.”
“I wasn't talking to you, I was talking to him,”
Solomon points at me.
“Have you guys met?” I ask.
Muqtada and Solomon shake hands—Solomon's pants
fall down a little but he bows his legs to hold them up.
Then he takes his hand back and stalks off. Muqtada
turns to me: “This I think is enough for one day.” And
he goes back into our room.
I shake my head.
The phone rings next to me. I call for Armelio. He
scoots up, grabs the receiver, says “Joe's Pub,” and
hands the phone to me.
“Me?”
“Yeah, buddy.”
I take the phone. “I'm looking for Craig Gilner,” an
authoritative voice says through the line.
“Ah, speaking. Who is this?”
“This is Mr. Alfred Janowitz, Craig. I'm your principal
at Executive Pre-Professional High?”
“Holy crap!” I say, and I hang up.
The phone starts ringing again. I stand by it and ignore
it, explaining to Armelio and everyone else who passes 
that it's for me but that I can't answer. They understand
completely. It's the principal. I was right. I've seen this
guy before; he's the one who greeted us on that first day
when I was high with Aaron, and told us that only the
best had been accepted and only the best would be
rewarded. He's the one who drops by classes and looks
us over as we take tests and gives out chocolates as if
that makes up for it. He's the one who says “your
school day shouldn't end until five o'clock” and is
always in the newspapers as the most no-nonsense
principal around and now he's on my ass because he
knows I'm crazy and knows I haven't been doing my
homework. I never should have left that message for
Mr. Reynolds. This is it. I'm being expelled. I'm out of
school. I'm never going to go to high school again. I'm
never going to go to college.
When the phone finally dies, I start pacing.
I was right all along. What was I thinking? You add up
your little victories in here and think they count for
something. You get lulled into thinking Six North is the
real world. You make friends and have a pithy little
conversation with a girl, and you think you've
succeeded, Craig? You haven't succeeded in the
slightest. You haven't won anything. You haven't
proven anything. You haven't gotten better. You
haven't gotten a job. You aren't making any money.
You're in here costing the state money, taking the same 
pills you took before. You're wasting your
parents'money and the taxpayers'money. You don't
have anything really wrong with you.
This was all an excuse, I think. I was doing fine. I had a
93 average and I was holding my head above water. I
had good friends and a loving family. And because I
needed to be the center of attention, because I needed
something more, I ended up here, wallowing in myself,
trying to convince everybody around me that I have
some kind of. . . disease.
I don't have any disease. I keep pacing. Depression
isn't a disease. It's a pretext for being a prima donna.
Everybody knows that. My friends know it; my
principal knows it. The sweating has started again. I can
feel the Cycling roaring up in my brain. I haven't done
anything right. What have I done, made a bunch of little
pictures? That doesn't count as anything. I'm finished.
My principal just called me and I hung up on him and
didn't call back. I'm finished. I'm expelled. I'm
finished.
The man is back in my stomach and I rush to my
bathroom, but something about me won't let it go. I
hunch over the toilet moaning and hacking, but it won't
come so I wash my mouth out and get into bed.
“What happened?” Muqtada asks. “You never sleep
during the day.”
“I'm in big trouble,” I say, and I lie there, getting up
only to munch through lunch, until Dr. Minerva comes
by at three o'clock and pokes her head into my room.
“Craig? I'm here to talk.”
Chapter Thirty-Four
“I'm really glad to see you.” We're back in the room
that Nurse Monica checks me out in. Dr. Minerva
seems very familiar with it.
“I'm glad to see you, too. I'm glad to see you well,” she
says.
“Yeah, it's really been a roller coaster, I have to say.”
“An emotional roller coaster.”
“Yes.”
“Where is that roller coaster right now, Craig?”
“Down. Way down.”
“What's got you down?”
“I got a phone call from my school principal.”
“And what did he want?”
“I don't know. I hung up.”
“What do you think he wanted, Craig?”
“To expel me.”
“And why would he want to do that?”
“Hello? Because I'm here? Because I'm not in school?”
“Craig, your principal can't expel you for being in a
psychiatric hospital.”
“Well, you know all my other problems.”
“What are those?”
“Hanging out with my friends all the time, getting
depressed, not doing homework …”
“Uh-huh. Let's hold off on that for a moment, Craig. I
haven't seen you since Friday. Can you talk a little bit
about how you came to be here?”
I give her the rap. There's much more to add to it now,
about being on Six North. About Noelle and the eating
and the not throwing up and the sleeping, where I'm
one for two.
“What's it like compared to Friday, Craig?”
“Better. Much, much better. But the question is, am I
really better, or am I just lulled into a false sense of
security by this fake environment? I mean, it's not
normal here.”
“Nowhere is normal, Craig.”
“I guess not. What's been the news since I've been in
here?”
“Someone tried to gas the Four Seasons in Manhattan.”
“Jeez!”
“I know.” Dr. Minerva smirks. Then she leans in.
“Craig, there's one thing you didn't mention that your
recreation director did. She said you've been doing art
while you've been here.”
“Oh, yeah, that's nothing, really. Just yesterday.”
“What is it like?”
“Well, remember how I told you last time that I liked to
draw maps when I was a little kid? It sort of came from
that.”
“How so?”
“When they gave me a pencil and paper in arts and
crafts, I remembered—well, I didn't remember, I was
actually prompted by Noelle—”
“That's the girl you met?”
“Right.”
“From the way you describe her I can see a real
friendship developing.”
“Oh, forget a friendship. We are totally going to be
going out when I leave, I think.”
“You think you're ready for that, Craig?”
“Absolutely.”
“All right.” She takes a note. “So how did Noelle help
you?”
“She suggested that I draw something from my
childhood, and that made me remember the maps.”
“I see.”
“And I started drawing one, but then Ebony came
over—”
“You're on a first-name basis with all these people.”
“Of course.”
“Have you ever considered yourself good at mak-ing
friends, Craig?”
“No.”
“But you can make friends here.”
“Right. Well, here is different.”
“How is it different?”
“It's, I dunno . . . there's no pressure.”
“No pressure to make friends?”
“No, no pressure to work hard.”
“As there is in the outside world.”
“Right.”
“Tremendous pressure out there. Your Tentacles.”
“Yeah.”
“Are there Tentacles in here, Craig?”
I stop and think. The way they run things on Six North
has become clear to me: it's all about keeping people
occupied and passing the time. You wake up and
you've immediately got a blood pressure gauge around
your arm and somebody taking your pulse. Then it's
breakfast. Then you get your meds and then there's a
smoking break, and then maybe you have fifteen
minutes to yourself before there's some kind of activity.
That leads to lunch which leads to more meds and more
smoking and more activities, and then all of a sudden
the day is over; it's time for dinner, and everyone's
trading salt and desserts, and then it's the 10 P.M.
cigarette break and bedtime.
“No, there aren't any Tentacles in here,” I say. “The
opposite of a Tentacle is a simple task, something that's
placed before you and that you do without question.
That's what they have in here.”
“Right. Your only Tentacles in here are your phone
calls, which are what got you so down just now.”
“Correct.”
Dr. Minerva takes notes. “Now, here's an important
question, Craig. Are there any Anchors in here?”
“Huh.”
“Anything you can hold on to.”
I think about it. If an Anchor is a constant, there are lots
of those. There's the constant lite FM, which
occasionally borders on dangerously funky, coming out
of the nurses'station whether Smitty or Howard is
behind it. There's the constant schedule: the food
coming and going, the meds being dished out, the
announcements of Armelio. There's the constant of
Armelio himself, always ready to play cards. And
Jimmy is always around going, “It'll come to ya!”
“The people are Anchors,” I say.
“People don't make good Anchors, though, Craig. They
change. The people here are going to change. The
patients are going to leave. You can't rely on them.”
“When will they leave?”
“I can't know that.”
“What about the staff?”
“They change too, just on a different time scale. People
always come and go.”
“Noelle. She's beautiful and smart and I really like her.
She could be an Anchor.”
“You don't want any of your Anchors being members
of the opposite sex you're attracted to,” Dr. Minerva
says. “Relationships change even more than people. It's
like two people changing. It's exponentially more
volatile. Especially two teenagers.”
“But Romeo and Juliet were teenagers,” I point out.
“And what happened to Romeo and Juliet?”
“Oh,” I mumble. “Right.”
“And have we gone beyond that, Craig? Have we gone
beyond thinking those thoughts?”
“Yes,” I nod.
“Because if you have those thoughts again you know
you have to come back here.”
“I know. I won't.”
“Why not?”
“It's just… It would suck to kill myself. I'd hurt a lot of
people and … it would suck.”
“That's right,” Dr. Minerva leans across the table. “It
would suck. And not just for other people. For you.”
“It's not noble or anything,” I say. “Like this guy
Muqtada who's my roommate, he's practically dead. He
doesn't do anything. He just lies in bed all day.”
“Right.”
“And I don't want to ever be like him. I don't want to
live that way. And if I were dead, I'd basically be living
that way.”
“Excellent, Craig.”
She stops. Like I say, the good shrinks know when to
throw in a dramatic pause.
I tap my feet. The fluorescent lights hum.
“I want to pick back up on your Anchors,” Dr. Minerva
says. “Can you think of anything else you've found in
here that could occupy your time when you leave?”
I think. I know there's something. It's at the tip of my
brain-tongue. But it won't come.
“No.”
“Okay, not a problem. You've made a lot of progress
today. There's only one more thing we have to do: call
your principal.”
“No!” I tell her, but she's already at it, pulling out her
cell phone, which is apparently allowed up here. “Yes, 
I'd like the number for Executive Pre-Professional High
School in Manhattan.”
“You can't you can't you can't” I say, leaning across
the table, grabbing at the phone. Luckily the blinds are
drawn so no one can see in here; if they did they'd
probably have me sedated. She gets up and walks to the
door, points outside. Do I want security in here? I sit
back down.
“Yes,” she says. “I need to speak with the principal. I'm
returning a call of his to one of your students regarding
a health and legal matter. I'm the mother.”
A pause.
“Great.” She cups the phone. “I'm being connected.”
“I can't believe you're doing this,” I say.
“I can't believe you'd be worried about me doing this . .
. yes, hello? Is this Mr. . . .” she looks at me.
“Janowitz,” I mouth.
“Janowitz?”
I hear an affirmative mumph through the line.
“I'm Dr. Minerva, calling for your student Craig Gilner.
You called him before at Argenon Hospital psychiatric
facility in Brooklyn. I'm Craig's licensed therapist and 
I'm right here with him; would you like to speak with
him?”
She nods. “Here you go, Craig.”
I take the cell phone—it's smaller than mine, more
buzzy. “Um, hello?”
“Craig, why'd you hang up on me?” His booming voice
is light and gentle, almost laughing.
“Ah … I thought I was in trouble. I thought I was being
expelled. You called me, you know, in the hospital.”
“Craig, I called you because I got a message from one
of our teachers. I just wanted to tell you that you have
the school's full support in everything you're going
through and that we're more than willing to have your
semester repeated, or given over the summer, or for
work to be provided for you where you are now, if you
should miss enough days to warrant that.”
“Oh.”
“We don't pass judgment on our students for being in
the hospital, my goodness, Craig.”
“No? But it's, like, a psychiatric—”
“I know what kind of hospital it is. You think we don't
have other kids in these situations? It's a very common
problem among young people.”
“Oh. Uh, thanks.”
“Are you doing okay?”
“I'm doing better.”
“Do you know when you'll be leaving?”
I don't want to tell him Thursday and then have it be
Friday. Or next Thursday. Or next year.
“Soon,” I say.
“Okay. You just hang in there, and whenever you come
back, we'll be waiting for you at Executive PreProfessional.”
“Thanks, Mr. Janowitz.” And I picture it in my mind:
me going back to school. My little group of friends—
only they're not even my friends anymore—buffered by
this new collection of girls who like me because I'm
depressed and teachers who are sympathizing and the
suddenly nice principal. It's something I want to get
excited about. But I can't.
“See, was that so bad?” Dr. Minerva asks. And I have to
admit that it wasn't. But it was kind of like getting told
that the prison is happy that you've been granted a
temporary reprieve but we'll be right here with open
arms to take you in when you come back.
“The plan right now is to discharge you Thursday,
Craig, and I'll be here to talk to you on Wednesday, all
right?” Dr. Minerva asks. I shake her hand and thank
her. I tell her what I tell her when I feel really good
about talking to her, which is that she knows how to do
her job. Then I go back to my room and draw some
brain maps. I'm excited for tonight, for Armelio's big
card tournament.
Chapter Thirty-Five
“O'kay!” says Armelio. “Everybody here?”
We're back in the activities lounge. Johnny, Humble,
Ebony, and the Professor are here. Everyone shaved
today—it turns out that the shaving rule is only
enforced on weekdays—and they look ten times better.
Even Rolling Pin Robert, pacing the halls outside, looks
serviceable. I'll have to remember that: shaving can
make even a psych patient look good.
“Huh.” Johnny exhales. “Bobby's still at his interview.”
“Yeah,” Ebony says. “Craig lent him a shirt. You're so
nice, Craig.”
“Thanks.”
“When are you going to do more of your art?”
“Maybe tonight, after cards.”
“That's right, buddy, cards is what we need to focus
on,” Armelio announces. He stands at the head of the
table, which is covered with paint drops, crayon marks,
and ink smears over uneven wood. In the middle is a
plastic container with the buttons, separated into four
even partitions. It looks like at some point the buttons
were ordered by size or color, but now they're all mixed 
up—every conceivable hue, shape, and ornamentation.
They look like jewels.
“I don't want any of my buttons missing at the end!”
Joanie says from the back. She's at the other table,
reading a romance novel and supervising.
“That's right, we're still looking for the Blue Button
Bandit,” Humble says. “Anybody who can suddenly
keep their pants up, we're going to be very suspicious.
Watch out for Solomon, that means. And Ebony.”
“I told you once, stupid, to stop talking about my
pants.”
“Okay, everybody ready?” Armelio asks. “Take your
buttons!”
Our hands dive into the middle of the table, grabbing
fistfuls. We pour the buttons in front of us and use our
fingertips to spread them into a one-button-thick layer.
Armelio gets to judge whether we have an equal
amount.
“Humble, put back six buttons. Ebony, put back ten.
Johnny, what's going on, buddy? You have like two
hundred buttons too many!”
“I got a button bonus,” Johnny says, and just then
Bobby comes into the activity room.
He moves with his normal loping gait, leaning back
with my shirt on. He stops at the end of our table,
makes sure he has our attention, raises his right hand,
shakes it in the air like he's doing a magic trick, and
then slams both his fists down on the table so his arms
make a ‘V'shape, as if he were Chairman of the Board.
He grins:
“I got it.”
Silence holds the room.
Joanie starts the clapping from the back, slowly, but
with reverence and purpose. Then Armelio joins in and
the tempo starts to spiral.
“All right!”
“Congratulations!”
“Hooray for Brooklyn scumbags!”
“Bob-by! Bob-by!”
In a small room, eight people clapping can be a lot. The
posters seem to shake with the applause. As it gets
louder there's howling and hooting and cheering.
Tommy gets up and gives Bobby a bear hug, the kind
that you can see between two men who've known one
another for twenty years, who've been Fiend One and
Fiend Two, for whom one's victory counts just as much
for the other.
“Bobby, buddy, you the man!” Armelio walks over to
the hugging pair and smacks Bobby's back, nearly
toppling Bobby and Johnny.
“Wait a minute,” Bobby says. He extracts himself from
the hug and holds up his right hand. “Before we get too
crazy, ‘cause I see the buttons are out, I gotta thank this
young man over here.” He walks toward me. “This kid
literally gave me the shirt off his back—this blue one
right here—and he didn't know me from Adam, and
there ain't no question, without him, I wouldn't have
gotten this home. This new home.”
I stand up and Bobby hugs me, his big bony hands
wrapping around my back, and I feel the smooth old
skin of his cheek and the well-knit fabric of my shirt
doing a better job on him than it ever did on me. I think
about how much this means to this guy, about how
much more important it is than going to any high school
or getting with any girl or being friends with anybody.
This guy just got a place to live. Me? I have one. I'll
always have one. I don't have any reason to worry
about it. My stupid fantasies about ending up homeless
are just that— the fact is that my parents will take me in
anytime, anywhere. But some people have to get lucky
just to live. And I never knew I could make anybody
lucky.
If Bobby can get a place to live, I think, then I can get a
life worth living.
“Thank you, kid,” Bobby says.
“It's nothing,” I mumble. “Thanks for the tour.”
“All right, guys, we gonna play cards or what?”
Armelio asks, but Bobby stops him.
“One more thing: I'm really sorry, Craig, but I
accidentally fell in something on my way back from the
interview.” He turns around. There's a . . . wait a
minute . . .
There's a giant piece of dog shit ground into the back of
my shirt, right above his belt.
“Ah …” I can't believe I didn't smell it. Did I touch it
when I hugged him? “Ah, Bobby . . . it's okay . . . my
mom can wash it out—”
“It ain't real!” Bobby reaches back and pulls it off,
throws it at me. It bounces off my shirt (a tie-dye Tshirt that everyone on Six North likes) and lands on the
table in the buttons.
“It's plastic! I've had it since the eighties! Ha! I love
it!”
Armelio cracks up. “Holy crap! Look at that! It looks
like something my mom would leave in my bedroom!”
Everyone stops, turns.
“President Armelio, we did not need to know that,” says
Humble.
“Your mother would defecate in your bedroom?” the
Professor asks.
“Who said that?” Armelio asks. “I was talking about
plastic—what'sthematter with you?”
“Everybody just cool it a little,” says Joanie, standing
up with her book at her side. “Let's have fun, but keep
calm.”
“All right, who gets the doodie button?” Humble holds
up the poop. “I think it counts for two.”
Bobby sits down and we ante up. The game is poker,
seven-card stud. I'm no good at it. The hands start and
people begin betting crazy, throwing in three or four
buttons right at the beginning. I can't match them. I
have a limited number. And I don't seem to be getting
any good hands. So I fold. I fold three times in a row.
The third time, Johnny says, “You might as well bet.
It's just buttons.”
“Yeah,” Humble says. “Let me show you a secret.” He
reaches into the button container and takes out a
handful. “See?”
“I see,” Armelio says, looking over his cards. “Don't
think that's not cheating, Humble. Any more and you're
out.”
I laugh and bet six buttons.
“What am I out of, exactly?” Humble asks Armelio.
“The button jackpot?”
“Be nice,” the Professor says.
“Oh, listen to her,” Humble jerks his thumb. “Trying to
be the mediator.” He leans in to me. “Don't let her
grandma look fool you. She's a real hustler.”
“Excuse me?” The Professor puts down her cards.
“What do you mean, ‘grandma?'”
“Nothing, you just have that little old granny look about
you, to lull people into your trap of playing good
cards!” Humble gestures at himself disbelievingly.
“You're saying I'm old.”
“I'm not! I'm saying you're a grandma!”
“Humble, apologize,” Joanie says from the back.
“Why? Grandmas are wonderful things.”
“For your information I'll have you know,” the
Professor says, “that unlike certain people around here I
act my age.”
“Oh, so now I'm a liar?” Humble asks, standing up.
“We all know that's what you are,” says the Professor.
“Peo-ple .. .” Joanie warns.
“If I'm a liar, you know what you are?”
“What? You better not call me old because I'll take this
cane and whack you in the head right in front of
everybody.”
“You ain't taking nothing of mine!” Ebony holds her
cane close. Quietly, she has far and away the most
buttons.
“You're a yuppie!” Humble yells, and he picks up the
dog doo and throws it at her head. “A stupid yuppie
with no respect for anybody!”
“Aaaagh!” The Professor holds her face. “He broke it!
He broke my nose!” The dog doo has bounced all the
way across the room and Joanie jumps over it lightly as
she beats a hasty retreat.
“Uh-oh,” Armelio says. “Now you guys did it. We were
having such a good card game.”
Harold comes into the room with two big guys in light
blue jumpsuits, Joanie behind them. Humble raises his
hands. “What? I didn't do it!”
“C'mon, Mr. Koper,” Harold says.
“I can't believe it!” Humble says. “She insulted me! It
wasn't even my dog poop! I didn't have the weapon!”
He starts pointing at Bobby. “He's an accomplice. If
I'm going, he's going.”
“Humble, you have three seconds to get over here.”
“All right, all right.” Humble throws down his cards.
“You guys have fun with your buttons.” He's escorted
out by Harold and the security guards, getting a
resounding slap on the butt from the Professor. She still
has one hand on her face, claiming that she's bleeding,
but when she removes her hand there isn't any kind of
mark. Joanie sits back down at her table.
“You all saw what happened. He attacked me,” the
Professor says.
“Yeah yeah, we saw, Doomba,” says Armelio.
“Excuse me?”
“You're the Doomba; we all know you are.”
“What's a Doomba?” I ask.
“If you asking, maybe you're a Doomba, too!” Armelio
looks mad. This is the first time I've seen it.
“Huh,” Johnny breathes.
“Craig ain't no Doomba,” Bobby says. “He's on the
level.”
“Aren't I the winner yet?” asks Ebony.
“How can you have so many buttons?” asks Armelio.
“You're not winning any hands!”
“It's cuz I don't over-bet,” Ebony says, leaning over,
and a stream of buttons comes roaring out of her top.
“Whoops!”
They keep coming—a mountain spilling over the ante
pile. She starts laughing and laughing, showing us her
very neat and clean gums while she howls: “Ooooooh, I
got you! I got alla you!”
“That's it,” Armelio says, throwing down his cards.
“Every Monday the card tournament always gets
messed up! I quit!”
“Do you resign your position as President?” Bobby asks
him.
“Forget you, buddy!”
My tongue hurts from so much biting. It might not have
been a regulation game, but it definitely had as many
emotional ups-and-downs as the poker on TV. I clean
up with Bobby and Joanie. Tonight, when I get in bed,
I'm too busy wondering about what a Doomba is, and
when Ebony stuck the buttons in her breasts, and what
that even feels like, and Noelle and the fact that I get to
see her tomorrow, to do anything but sleep.

Chapter Thirty-Six
The next day Humble isn't around for breakfast. I sit
with Bobby and Johnny, collect my shirt, perfectly
folded, and put it on the back of my chair. I drink the
day's first “Swee-Touch-Nee” tea and ask what they did
with Humble.
“Oh, he's happy. They went and gave him some serious
drugs, probably.”
“Like what?”
“You know about drugs? Pills?”
“Sure. I'm a teenager.”
“Well, Humble is psychotic and depressed,” Bobby
explains. “So he gets SSRIs, lithium, Xanax—”
“Vicodin,” Johnny says.
“Vicodin, Valium . . . he's like the most heavily
medicated guy in here.”
“So when they took him away they gave him all that
stuff?”
“No, that's what he gets normally. When they take him
away they give him shots, I bet. Atavan.”
“I had that.”
“You did? That'll knock you right out. Was it fun?”
“It was okay. I don't want to be taking stuff like that all
the time.”
“Huh. That's the right attitude,” says Johnny. “We got a
little sidetracked by drugs, me and Bobby.”
“Yeah, no kiddin',” Bobby says. He shakes his head,
looks up, chews, and folds his hands. “Sidetracked isn't
even the word. We were off the face of this planet. We
were holed up twenty-four hours a day. I missed so
many concerts.”
“I'm sorry—”
“—Santana, Zeppelin, what's that later one with the
junkie, Nirvana … I coulda seen Rush, Van Halen,
Mötley Crüe, everybody. All this back when it cost ten
bucks to get in. And I was too much of a garbage-head
to care.”
“What's a garbage-head?”
“Somebody who does anything, whatever,” Bobby
explains. “You give it to me, I'd do it. Just to see what
it was like.”
Jeez. I'll admit that it sounds a little sexy. I see the
appeal. But maybe that's why I'm in here, to meet guys
who take the appeal away.
“Do you think Humble stages scenes so he can get
drugs?” I'm spreading cream cheese on a bagel now. I
started ordering bagels x2 for breakfast; they're far and
away the best option.
“That's the kinda thing you just can't speculate about,”
Bobby says. “Oh, here comes your girl.”
She rushes in with a tray and sits down in a corner,
drinks her juice, dips at her oatmeal. She glances over at
me. I wave as lightly as I can, so people think maybe I
have a spasmodic twitch. I haven't seen her since
Sunday; I don't know what she did all of yesterday. I
don't know how she eats if she doesn't leave her room.
Same with Muqtada. Maybe they deliver food to her?
There's still so much I don't know about this place.
“Huh, she is a cutie,” Johnny says.
“C'mon, man, don't be saying that. She's like thirteen,”
Bobby says.
“So? He's like thirteen.”
“I'm fifteen.”
“Well, let him say it, then,” Bobby says to Johnny.
“Leave the thirteen-year-olds to the thirteen-year-olds.”
“I'm fifteen,” I interject.
“Craig, you should probably wait a few years, because
sex at thirteen can mess you up.”
“I'm fifteen!”
“Huh, I was doing stuff when I was fifteen,” says
Johnny.
“Yeah,” says Bobby. “With guys.”
Pause. If Ronny were here, he would say it out loud:
“Pause.”
“Huh. This food sucks.” Johnny pushes his waf fles
aside. “Kid,” he says. “Just do this for me. If you get
with her, freak her a little bit. You know what I mean?”
“Stop it,” Bobby looks at Johnny. “You got a daughter
that age.”
“I'd set him up with my daughter, too. Probably do her
good.”
“Wait, how do you guys even know about this? I only
talked with her once, and it was really short. Nothing
happened.”
“Yeah, but you came into the activity center with her.”
“We notice everything.”
I shake my head. “What's going on today?”
“At eleven the guitar guy is coming. Johnny here'll
play.”
“Oh, yeah?”
“Huh, if the inclination hits.”
I finish up my bagel. I know what I'm going to do until
the guitar guy comes: I'm going to make brain maps. I
kind of have an audience now. Joanie lent me some
high-quality pencils and glossy paper since I helped her
out with clean-up after the card tournament debacle, so
I can draw whenever I want. When I do, people line up
to watch me work. Ebony is my biggest fan; she seems
to like nothing better than to sit behind me and see the
maps fill out in the people's heads; I think she likes
them more than I do. The Professor is big into them too;
she says my art is “extraordinary” and I could sell it on
the street if I wanted. I'm branching out into variations:
maps in people's bodies, maps in animals, maps
connecting two people together. It comes naturally and
it passes the time and it feels a little more accomplished
than playing cards.
“I'm gonna work on my art,” I tell the guys.
“If I had half your initiative, things woulda turned out
different,” says Bobby.
“Huh, yeah; I want to be you when I grow up,” says
Johnny.
I walk out with my tray.
Chapter Thirty-Seven
The guitar guy's name is Neil; he has a black goatee
and a black shirt and suede pants and he looks totally
stoned. He comes in with a vintage-looking electric
guitar—I don't know brands, but it looks like
something the Beatles would have had—and plugs it
into his amp on a chair before we file in. There's
something I didn't expect in the room— instruments on
all the seats around the circle—and people run for the
ones they want. We have visitors today, nursing
students who are learning what it's like to work in a
psych hospital, and they wade in with us and take seats
and mediate disputes over who gets the bongo drums,
the conga drums, the two sticks you bang together, the
washboard, and the coveted seat by the electric
keyboard.
“Hey, everybody!” Neil sways. “Welcome to musical
exploration!”
He's playing simple chords in a studded beat that I
think is supposed to be reggae, and after a while I
realize it's “I Shot the Sheriff.” He starts singing and
he's just got a terrible voice, like an albino Jamaican
frog, but we chime in as best we can with our voices
and whatever instruments we ended up with.
Armelio bangs on his chair with some sticks and gets
bored, leaves the room.
Becca, the big girl, asks if she can trade her bongos (the
little ones) for my congas (the big ones), and I switch. I
try to play the fills that come after the choruses in “I
Shot the Sheriff'and Neil recognizes that I'm trying,
gives me a chance to shine each time, but I can't pull
them off.
Noelle, directly across from me, shakes maracas and her
hair, smiling. I occasionally fire off a bongo fill just for
her but I'm not sure if she notices.
The star of the show is Jimmy.
I didn't have any idea that the high-pitched noises he
made were singing. Once the music starts he goes right
into the Jimmy-verse, banging against his washboard
and letting it all hang out in a piercing falsetto that's
surprisingly on key. The thing is, he doesn't sing “I
Shot the Sheriff.” He sings only one phrase:
“How sweet it is!”
Doesn't matter where the song is or what it is; Jimmy
will hum along to the tune as necessary, and then, as
soon as there's a break that he can be heard over,
remind us: “How sweet it is!” He sounds a little like
Mr. Hankey from South Park. The nursing students,
who are all West Indian like Nurse Monica, and young, 
unlike her, absolutely adore him and give him big
smiles, which increases his activity. Jimmy may have
only a few sentences in his repertoire, but he knows to
keep going when pretty girls pay attention to him.
I send out a fill for him. He sings back. I'm convinced
that some part of him knows we came in together.
When “I Shot the Sheriff” finishes in a crescendo of
percussion that seems destined never to end (everybody
wants to hit that last note, including me), Neil starts in
on the Beatles: “I Wanna Hold Your Hand,” “I Feel
Fine.” The Beatles are apparently the cue for people to
get up and dance. It begins with Becca, at Neil's left. A
nursing student pulls her up, she leaves her conga aside
and starts wiggling her big butt in the middle of the
circle—we yell out encouragement. She turns red and
grins, and when she sits down, it's Bobby's turn—he
moves like John Travolta in Pulp Fiction, shaking his
hips with a laconic tilt, turning his feet more than his
body.
Johnny refuses to dance but bobs his head. The nursing
students dance with one another and with Neil. Then it
comes around to me. I hate dancing. I've never been
good at it and I don't mean that in the traditional scared
teenager way: I'm really not good.
But a nursing student has both her hands out to me, and
Noelle is across the room.
I put my bongos aside and try to think about what I'm
doing as I do it. I know that you're not supposed to
think about dancing—what is that stupid expression,
Sing like no one's listening, dance like no one's
watching?—whatever. I want to dance like Bobby did,
and I know the way to do that is to move my hips, so I
focus there and think a lot. I don't think about my arms.
I don't think about my legs. I don't think about my
head. I think about shaking my hips back and forth and
then in and out and then in circles, and all of a sudden
the nursing student is behind me—I had my eyes
closed—and there's another one in front of me, making
a Craig Gilner sandwich, and I'm dancing as if I were
one of those cool club guys with two chicks—heck, I
have two chicks.
I hold out my hand to Noelle in a fit of confidence. She
gets up and we go to the middle of the floor and shake
our hips at each other, never touching, never talking,
just smiling and keeping our eyes locked. I think she's
actually looking to me for tips, so I mouth to her:
“Shake your hips!”
She does, her arms as out of place as my own, hanging
at her sides with nowhere sexy to go. Where are you
supposed to put your arms when you dance? It's like
the Universal Question. I guess you're supposed to put
them around someone.
When it's Jimmy's turn to dance, he gets up, throws
down his washboard, and puts his finger over his lips at
Neil. Neil stops playing. Jimmy does a pirouette over
the unaccompanied wild percussion that we've built up
and lands on his knee: “How sweet it is!”
Chapter Thirty-Eight
When Neil's guitar is packed up he comes over.
“Good job with those drum fills.”
“Yeah?”
“Yeah. I haven't seen you before. What's your name?”
“Craig.”
“You had good rhythm; you got people moving. Ah, I
hope you don't mind me asking this but . . . why are
you here? You seem pretty, you know, good.”
“I have depression,” I say. “I had it really bad. I'm
getting out in two days.”
“Great, wonderful, that's great to hear. I have a lot of
friends with that.” He nods at me. “Once you're out, do
you ever think you might consider … volunteering in a
place like this?”
“Volunteering with what?”
“Well, do you play instruments?”
“No.”
“You probably could. You have a good musical sense.”
“Thanks. I do art.”
“What kind of art?”
I lead him out of the activity center past the
nurses'station and the phone, to my room, where
Muqtada is in bed.
“Craig, I hear you all in music room,” he says.
“You should have come.”
Neil smiles at him: “Hello.”
“Hm.”
I pull my stack of my brain maps out for Neil. “I do
these.” I give him a whole armful, maybe fifteen of the
best of them by now. The one on top is a duo, a guy and
girl with a bridge connecting the cities in their minds.
“These are cool” Neil says. He flips through them.
“Have you done these for a long time?”
“That depends,” I say. “Ten years or a couple days,
depending on how you count it.”
“Can I have one?”
“I don't know if I can give them away for free.”
“Ha! Listen, for real, here's my card.” Neil pulls out a
simple black-and-white business card that identifies him
as a Guitar Therapist. “Whenever you're out of here,
and I'm sure it'll be soon, give me a call and we can 
talk about volunteering, and—I'm serious—I might like
to buy some of these. How old are you? You should be
on the teen floor, right, but they're renovating?”
“I'm young,” I say.
“I'm glad you came here and got the help you needed,”
Neil says, and he shakes my hand in that way that
people do in here to remind themselves that you're the
patient and they're the doctor/ volunteer/employee.
They like you, and they genuinely want you to do
better, but when they shake your hand you feel that
distance, that slight disconnect because they know that
you're still broken somewhere, that you might snap at
any moment.
Neil leaves the room and I spend the rest of the day
drawing and playing cards with Armelio. Around onethirty I call Mom, tell her about the sing-along and the
card tournament and how I danced, and she affirms that
I'm sounding better and that she heard from Dr.
Mahmoud that Thursday is a solid day and she and Dad
will be ready when it's time to pick me up. Even though
it's only a few blocks back to my house, they have to
pick me up in person.
In the late afternoon, while I'm playing spit with
Armelio and getting crushed, Smitty pops in and tells
me I have a visitor.
I know it's not Mom or Dad or Sarah; they're coming
tomorrow for one last time, when Dad brings hope to
God it isn't Aaron or one of his friends.Blade II. I
It's Nia.
I see her through the big window in the dining room,
looking like she's been crying or she's about to cry, or
both. She comes slinking timidly down the hall and I
walk away from Armelio without a word to go up to
her.
Chapter Thirty-Nine
“What are you doing here?” I ask, then pause. That's
really a question other people should be asking me.
“What do you think?” She has on light makeup that
makes her lips sparkle and her cheeks a slight Asian
red; her hair is drawn back to accent the curved
proportions of her face. “I'm here to see you.
“Why?”
She turns away. “I'm having a really hard time right
now, okay Craig?”
“All right,” I get in step with her. “Come on, the best
place to talk is over here.”
I lead her through the hall with a familiarity and
confidence that she seems surprised by. I guess I'm a
veteran here now. Sort of an alpha male. Which
reminds me: still no Humble.
“Here.” I sit her in the chairs where I sat with my
parents and Noelle. “What's going on?”
She puts her hands on her knees. She has on a little
beige combat outfit with black boots; she looks like a
Soviet soldier recruit. The light comes in behind her and
makes her skin sparkle. I've seen her in this get-up 
before; it's one of her particularly hottest ones: when
you bind up little breasts in guy-type clothing they're
just that much more intriguing.
“Aaron and I broke up,” she says.
“No.” I open my eyes wide.
“Yes, Craig.” She wipes her face. “After that night
when he called here? And you told him I was on
Prozac?”
“What? Are you saying that it's my fault?”
“I'm not saying it's anybody's fault!” She chops her
arms against her thighs and takes a deep breath.
The Professor peers out of her room.
“Who are you?” Nia turns.
“I'm Amanda,” she says. “I'm Craig's friend.”
“Well, we're trying to have a conversation; I'm really
sorry.” Nia wipes her hair.
“It's okay. But you shouldn't yell. Solomon will come
out.”
“Who's Solomon?” Nia turns to me. “Is he dangerous?”
“Nobody here is dangerous,” I say, and as I say it I put
my hand over Nia's, on her thigh. I'm not sure why I do
it—to reassure her? I guess it's just an instinct, a 
reaction. Subconsciously I suppose I'm thinking that
it's a really hot thigh and that I would love to have my
hand there without her hand serving as a buffer. I
haven't really gotten the chance to touch any girl's
thigh, and Nia's beige ones seem just about as alluring
as thighs get. I even think it's a sexy word: thigh.
“Craig, hello?”
“Sorry, I was spacing out.”
She looks down at my hand and gives a little smirk. She
doesn't move it away. “You're funny. I was asking you
if you like it here.”
“It's not bad. It's better than school.”
“I believe that.” Now her hand—her other hand—is on
top of my hand on top of her thigh. I think of the
dancing sandwich I was in before in the activity lounge.
I feel how warm she is and remember how I noticed
that at the party, eons ago. “I've been thinking about
going to a place like this.”
“What?” I pull my body away but keep my hand under
hers. “What do you mean?”
“I've been thinking of, you know, checking myself in,
spending some time here, or somewhere like it, recentering, like you.”
“Nia.” I shake my head. “You can't just come in here
because you want to.”
“Isn't that what you did?”
“No!”
“What did you do, then?” She tilts her head.
“I … I had like a medical emergency,” I explain. “I
called up the Suicide Hotline and they sent me here.”
Nia leans back. “You called the Suicide Hotline?” She
holds my hand up, clutches it. “Oh, Craig!”
I look at my crotch. I'm springing up. I can't help it.
She's so close. This face is so close to mine and it's the
same face I've jerked off to so many times. I've
conditioned myself to want this face. I want her. I feel
her on me and I want her right now in her little Russian
army outfit. I want to see what she looks like with it off.
I want to see what she looks like with it half off.
“I didn't realize . . .” she continues. “I knew you wanted
to kill yourself; I never knew you wanted to kill
yourself. I never would have told Aaron that you called
me from that weird number if I'd known it was so
serious.”
“Well, what do you think people come here for?” My
hand twitches around hers.
“To get better?” she asks.
“Yeah, exactly. But you have to be really bad before
they make you get better here.”
Nia swishes her head and her hair slides around her
dark eyes. “I thought that you got bad because of me.
And I thought I could make you better.”
She's so cute. The way she holds her face, it's like she
always knows the best angles.We hold each other's
eyes. I see myself in hers. I look expectant, ready,
eager, stupid, willing to do anything.
I don't like how I look. Humble wouldn't like it either;
it doesn't have any strength or will. But I don't have
any strength or will when I'm with her. I don't have any
choice. We're going to do whatever she wants.
“What about Aaron?” I ask.
“I told you.” She drops almost to a whisper. “I broke up
with him.”
“You broke up with him?” I want it clarified.
“It was mutual. Is that important?”
“Permanently broke up?”
“Looks like it.”
“Don't you think it's a little soon for you to be coming
in here and, like, touching me?”
She shakes her head and purses her lower lip.
“I've been thinking about you since we talked on the
phone Friday night. And now I know you so much
better. You've told me all this stuff about you and
you're really … I don't know … you're mature. You're
not like all these other people with their stupid little
problems. You're like, really screwed up.” She giggles.
“In the good way. The way that gives experience.”
“Huh.” I'm not sure what to say. No, wait, I know what
to say: Go away, leave, I don't need you; I finished with
you on the phone before; I met a girl here who's cooler
and smarter; but when you've got a really gorgeous girl
in front of you and she's biting her lip and talking low
and smiling—and you're hard—what are you going to
do?
“Huh … uh … well…” I'm back to stuttering. Maybe it
was Nia that made me stutter. I'm sweating too.
“Do you want to show me your room?” she asks.
That's a bad idea. It's a bad idea just as much as it's a
bad idea to skip meals or stay awake in bed in the
morning or stop taking your Zoloft, but there's no hope
for me now. I cede control to my lower half, which is
actually pointing toward my room, and lead Nia to it.

Chapter Forty
Muqtada isn't in the room. I can't believe it—it's like
the first time since I've been here. I look at his rumpled
sheets and try to make out a human form, but there isn't
enough bulk to account for him. I peek in the
bathroom—nothing.
“You have a roommate?” Nia asks.
“Yeah, uh, he's usually here …”
“Ewwww …” She waves in front of her nose.
“Something smells.”
“The roommate's Egyptian; I don't think he wears
deodorant.”
“Me either.”
I make like I'm cleaning up my stuff near my bed, but
really I'm just taking my brain maps and flipping them
over.
“You don't get a TV?”
“No.”
“Do you read in here?”
“I like to read out in the hall with other people. My
sister gave me a Star magazine, but the nurses took it
away to read themselves.”
She walks toward me, looking up idly glib and
innocent. “Do you get lonely here?”
“Actually, no,” I tell her. I move hair that is stuck to my
forehead. I'm really sweating now. “It's very social
here. I made friends.”
“Who?”
“That lady you were talking to outside.”
“Her? She's so rude. She totally horned in on our
conversation.”
“She thinks someone sprayed insecticide in her
apartment, Nia. She gets paranoid.”
“Really? That's crazy. That's really crazy.”
“I dunno. She might be right.” Nia is a few feet away
from me now. Her shoulders are tilted up at me. I could
pick her up and throw her on my unmade bed just like
Aaron has done for the past two years. These words
we're saying are just a front. “She's a college professor.
There might be something to it.”
“Craig . . .” She's right in front of me now. “Do you
remember when you called me"—she touches my
forehead—"oh, you're sweating!”
“Yeah, I do that. When I get nervous.”
“Are you okay? You're really sweating.”
“I'm all right.” I wipe it away.
“Seriously, Craig, that is gross.” She scowls, then gets
back to where she was. “When you called me, you
remember how you asked what I would do if you came
over and grabbed me and kissed me?”
“Yeah.” My stomach is tight. The man is down there
pulling on the rope. I thought I had him beat. I'd been
eating so well.
“I'd let you,” she says. “You know I would.”
Now she's got her glossy, sparkly lips turned up at me,
and I feel this amazing dichotomy going on. It's almost
like before I came in here, when I was in my mom's
bed, when my brain wanted to die but my heart wanted
to live. Now, quite literally, everything from my
stomach up wants to run to the bathroom, to throw up,
to talk to Armelio or Bobby or Smitty, to kick Nia out,
to get ready for my second date with Noelle. But the
bottom half has been denied too long. It's been ready
for this for two years, and it knows what it wants. It 
says that the real cause of all my problems is that I
haven't been satisfying it.
And these aren't any lips, either, that I'm presented
with to rectify my lack of play. These are lips that I've
had access to for years in my mind. I've done terrible,
horrible things to these lips in the privacy of my
bathroom. So screw it. You've gotta try sometime.
I lean down and grab Nia and push her back on
Muqtada's bed.
I didn't mean to; I meant to turn her around and put her
on my bed, but she happened to be in front of me and I
couldn't switch directions in mid-grab. I cover her with
my thin body and kiss her upper lip first, encase it in
my lips, then do the lower one, then try to do them both
at once, only that doesn't really work, it's like trying to
pull the lips off her head, and she laughs, which gives
me her beautiful smile to kiss, the hard white teeth—I
don't mind— and then I use my tongue the way I've
seen in movies and put my hands on her soldier outfit
and feel what I don't have and have wanted for years
pressing back at me, taut and yielding at the same time.
Two of them.
“Mmmmmm,” Nia mmmmmms, putting her small
hands on the back of my head. She feels my hair; I
shake against her. I can't believe how good it feels. This 
is how good it feels? Why the hell did I ever get
depressed?
I remember what Aaron said about the inside of a girl's
cheek feeling like another place and I lick the insides of
hers. She shivers; she likes it; it's like Aaron said: she
likes sex; her tongue becomes a jittery dart flicking in
and out of my mouth. I feel the ring—a little metal
bubble, something to add texture, foreign and dirty.
Forget it. Let's do it. I reach up to the buttons on her
outfit. My eyes are closed, because if I open them I
think I might get a little too excited and ruin my pants,
and Mom didn't bring me any pants.
Darn, the button I'm grabbing is in the middle. Up one.
No. That's not it. One more.
“God.” she pulls away. “I always wanted to hook up in
a hospital.”
“What?” I look up at her chin. I'm still on top of her on
Muqtada's bed, my legs sticking way off, almost hitting
my bed.
“This was totally on my checklist.” She looks down.
“Me and Aaron never did anything like this.”
That's a body blow to my whole body: the lower half
that wanted this and the upper half that warned me
about it. I can't think what to say: Please don't compare 
me to Aaron? Please don't mention Aaron? What
checklist? So I say: “Uh . . . um . . .”
“Sex! “ I hear from the doorway.
It's Muqtada.
“Sex! Sex in my bed! Children make sex in my bed!”
He runs over to us; I jump off Nia and hold my hands
up, thinking he's going to hit me, but he grabs me and
holds me close to his square smelly body and carries me
like a girder to the corner of the room.
“Um, Muqtada—”
“Craig, who is that?” Nia yells.
“I live here! You terrible girl corrupt my friend!”
Muqtada puts me down, turns and stands with his arms
crossed at Nia, guarding me. “You leave!” He points at
the open door.
“There's no door?!” Nia peers at it. On some kind of
incredible girl-time, she's gotten up, smoothed out her
outfit, and collected her purse from near Muqtada's
pillow. She already has her cell phone out; it's blinking
at her side. She's gesturing at me with it.
“There's a door, yeah,” I say, standing on tiptoes to talk
over Muqtada's shoulder. “We just didn't close it—”
“Don't talk to her!” Muqtada turns and shakes his
finger at me. “She try and make sex in my bed!”
“It wasn't just me, okay?” Nia bends her face in at him.
He turns back. “In case you didn't notice, Craig was on
top of me. And we weren't going to have sex.”
“Woman is temptress. My wife leave me. I know.”
“Craig, I'm outta here.”
“Uh, okay!” I answer into Muqtada's back. “Ah—” I
try and think how to sum it up. “I like making out with
you . . . but I don't really like you as a person. . . .”
“Yeah, same here,” says Nia.
“What is going on in here?” It's Smitty. He shadows the
door. “Muqtada, what are you doing? And excuse me,
young lady?”
“I was just leaving,” Nia says.
“You're the visitor for Craig, right?”
“Not anymore.”
“What happened in here?”
“Nothing,” says Muqtada. “Everything fine.” He steps
aside, turns, and gives me what I guess he thinks is a
wink through his glasses.
“Yeah, absolutely.” I catch on. “Muqtada just came in
and was surprised to see two people in the room.”
“Well, he should be,” says Smitty, “because you're not
supposed to have visitors in your room. Don't let it
happen again, okay?”
“No problem.”
“Yeah, because you won't be seeing me again,” says
Nia, and Smitty gives her a disbelieving look as she
walks away from him, stomping down the hall,
slamming her shoes with each step. He shrugs at us.
“All right,” he says to her back. “Sign out on your way
out, miss.”
“Craig, what kind of girl is going to put up with this …
crap?” Nia turns around, spreads her arms, and gestures
to the hall as if she owns it while she backs away.
“Be quiet, Doomba!” yells President Armelio from
somewhere. She turns back around and doesn't give any
more looks back.
“Huh,” Smitty says. “Lovely girl. Everything cool,
guys?”
We nod like kindergartners. “Yes.”
“Don't let anything like that happen again, Craig.”
“I won't.”
“Otherwise you'll be here a long time.” Smitty walks
away from the door; Muqtada waits a few moments and
then turns to me.
“Craig, I am sorry I only have very important beliefs
about sex.”
“No, I understand. You did a good thing.”
“You are not in trouble, yes?”
“No, I'm fine. You handled it perfectly, man.” I put out
my hand to get a slap from him, but he misinterprets
that as a handshake attempt, so I take the initiative and
turn it into a hug, a big smelly one. His glasses smack
against me.
“I am out trying to get Egyptian music in hospital,” he
says. “You give me idea. But they have none. Now I
rest.” And he climbs back in bed, rearranges his sheet,
curls into a fetal position, and stares through me.
I glance at the door. Right there, with her bright green
eyes wide open, is Noelle.
I rush out to talk to her, but she flies down to her room
and closes her door. I run up to it and knock, but there's
no answer, and when Smitty passes me, shooting a
look, I have to stop knocking.
I check the clock in the hall and sigh. It's five. Two
hours until our second date.
Chapter Forty-One
“I only have a couple of questions for you,” Noelle
says, walking up fast at seven o'clock as I sit in the
chair that I've come to call my conference chair, since I
meet with so many people in it. I wonder what else has
happened in this chair—people have probably peed on
it, licked it, drummed their heads against it, and writhed
around in it spouting gibberish. That gives me comfort.
It feels like a chair with some history.
I didn't think Noelle was going to show up, so I almost
didn't come—but then I decided I didn't want any
regrets. I'm done with those; regrets are an excuse for
people who have failed. When I get out in the world,
from now on, if I start to regret something, I'm going to
remind myself that whatever I could have done, it won't
change the fact that I was in a psychiatric hospital. This,
right here, is the biggest regret I could ever have. And
it's not so bad.
Noelle seems to be looking at me for comment. But I'm
amazed at how she looks. New clothes: a pair of tight
blue jeans cut down dangerously low and a sliver of
white underwear sticking out above them. The
underwear looks like it has pink stars on it—do
girls'underwear really have pink stars?—and I almost
stare, before my eyes are drawn by the soft curve of her 
stomach to her T-shirt, which is wrapped against her
with some kind of mystical female force, reading I
HATE BOYS.
How come girls are coming to me dressed all hot all of
a sudden?
Above the shirt is her face, bordered by blond hair
pulled back, and highlighted by her cuts.
“Uh . . . Why'd you wear that T-shirt?” I ask. “Is that a
message to me?”
“No. I hate boys, not you. And this is one reason why:
they're so arrogant. Why is that?” She stands with her
hands on her hips.
“Well …” I think. “Do you want like, a real, honest
answer?” My brain is working better than it did before.
It has bagels and soup and sugar and chicken in it. It's
firing almost like it used to.
“No, Craig, I want a big, dumb, fake answer.” Noelle
rolls her eyes. I think her breasts roll in synch with
them. Girls'breasts are so amazing.
“Wait, you didn't ask a question!” I smirk. “One point
for you.”
“We're not playing the game, Craig. We were going to,
but I'm too mad.”
“Okay, well, darn …” I start. “What were we talking
about?”
“Why guys are so arrogant.”
“Right. Well, you know, we're born into the world
seeing that we're just a little bit . . . We tend to have
things a little bit easier than girls. And we tend to
assume therefore that the world was built for us, and
that we're, you know, the culmination of everything
that came before us. And then we get told that having a
little bit of this attitude is called balls, and that balls are
good, and we kind of take it from there.”
“Wow, you are honest,” she says, sitting down. “An
honest asshole.” Yes! She sat down! “Who the hell was
that girl?”
“A girl I know.”
“She's pretty.” (It's amazing how girls can say this and
make it the most withering insult.) “Is she your
girlfriend?”
“No. I don't have a girlfriend. Never had a girlfriend.”
“So she was just a girl you were hooking up with in
your room?”
“You saw, huh.”
“I saw everything: from out here to your roommate's
bed.”
“What, you were following me?”
“I'm not allowed?”
“Well, no—”
“You don't like it?” She leans in. “You don't like some
poor little girl"—she throws on a Little Bo-Peep voice,
fluffs her hair—"following big, manly Craig around the
ward?”
“It's not a ward, it's a psych hospital.” But yes, yes I do
like you following me around; yes, that's awesome. “I
can't believe I didn't notice you. …” I think of the
flashes of time with Nia, if I ever glanced down the hall
or checked behind me.
“You were in a state of excitement; that's why.”
“Well. You want to know who she was?”
“No. I lost interest.”
“You did?”
“No! Tell me!”
“Okay, okay, she was this girl I've known for a long
time, and she came in here—”
“Just overcome with lust for you?”
“Yeah, sure, exactly; she came in overcome with lust
and I took advantage of her.” I flick my hand. “No,
what really happened is she came in here lonely and
confused, I think, and thinking that she belonged in a
place like this . . .”
“That was pretty funny when your roommate caught
you. That kinda made the whole thing worthwhile.”
“I'm glad you think so.”
“You're never going to be a good cheater. You're going
to be one of those guys who gets caught on the first
try.”
“Is that good?”
“You didn't even close the door. How'd you know the
girl?”
“She was my best friend's girlfriend since we were like
thirteen.”
“How old are you now?”
“Fifteen.”
“Me too.”
I look at her anew. There's something about people who
are the same age. It's like you got piped out in the same
shipment. You've got to stick together. Because deep 
down I believe my year was a special year: it produced
me.
“So you macked your best friend's girlfriend?”
“No, they broke up.”
“When?”
“Uh, a few days ago.”
“She moves fast!”
“I think,” I think out loud, “she's just one of these girls
who's never really not had a boyfriend.”
“Sometimes we call those girls sluts. Do you think she
had a boyfriend when she was eight?”
“Ew.”
“Maybe she was letting—”
“Stop! Stop! I don't want to hear it.”
“It happens.” Noelle looks at me.
I nod, and pause, and let that sink it. It does happen.
“Um . . . how are y ou?” I ask.
“You think you're really smart, don't you?”
I laugh. “No. That's one of the reasons I came in here,
actually. Thinking I was dumb.”
“Why would you think that? You're in a smart school.”
“I wasn't doing well there.”
“What were you getting?”
“Ninety-threes.”
Oh.” Noelle nods.
“Yeah.” I fold my arms. “I think you're really smart.
You probably get good grades.”
“Not really.” She puts her chin in her palms like
someone in a painting. “You're not very good at giving
compliments.”
“What?”
“I'm smart! C'mon.” “You're attractive, too!” I say.
“Does that work?
You're attractive! Did I say that already? I said it the
other day, right?”
“Attractive? Craig, real estate is attractive. Houses.”
“Sorry, you're beautiful. What about that?” I can't
believe I'm saying it. We'll both be out of here in two
days; that's why I'm saying it. No regrets.
“Beautiful's all right. There are better ones.”
“Okay, okay, cool.” I crack my neck—
“Ewwww. ““What?”
“Don't do that. Especially when you're about to
compliment me.”
“Fine, okay. What are better words than beautiful?”
She puts on a Southern accent: “'Go-geous.'”
“Okay, okay, you're gorgeous.”
“That sounds terrible. Do it my way: go-geous.”
I do it.
“You can't even do a Southern accent? Oh my gosh, are
you even from America?”
“Gimme a break! I'm from here!”
“Brooklyn?
“Yeah.”
“This neighborhood?”
“Yeah.”
“I have friends here.”
“We should meet up sometime.”
“You're so terrible. Try some more compliments.”
“Okay.” I dig down deep. I got nothing. “Um . . .”
“You don't know any more?”
“I'm not good at words.”
“See, this is why the math nerds don't get girls.”
“Who said I was a math nerd? I told you my grades
suck.”
“You might be one of those nerds who's not smart.
Those are the worst kind.”
“Listen,” I stop her. “I'm really glad you're here talking
with me, and I've met a lot of people in here.”
“Uh-oh,” she says. “Is this the part where it gets all
serious?”
“Yes,” I say. And when I say it, the way that I say it, I
see that she understands that I'm serious about being
serious. I can be serious now. I've been through some
serious shit and I can be serious like somebody older.
“I like you a lot,” I start. No regrets. “Because you're
funny and smart and because you seem to like me. I
know that's not a good reason, but I can't help it; if a
girl likes me I tend to like her back.”
She doesn't say anything. I dip my head at her. “Um, do
you want to say anything?”
“No. No! This is fine. Keep going.”
“Well, okay, I've been thinking about how to put this. I
like you for all this stuff but I also kind of like you for
the cuts on your face—”
“Oh no, are you a fetishist?”
“What?”
“Are you like a blood fetishist? There was one of them
in here before. He wanted to make me like his Queen of
the Night or something.”
“No! It's nothing like that. It's like this: when people
have problems, you know … I come in here and I see
that people from all over have problems. I mean, the
people that I've made friends with are pretty much a
bunch of lowlifes, old drug addicts, people who can't
hold jobs; but then every few days, someone new
comes in who looks like he just got out of a business
meeting.”
Noelle nods. She's seen them too: the scruffy youngish
guy who came in today with a pile of books as if it were
a reading retreat. The guy who came in yesterday in a
suit and told me in the most practical way that he heard
voices and they were a real pain in the ass; they didn't
say anything scary but they were always saying the
stupidest stuff while he was in trial.
“And not only in here: all over. My friends are all
calling me up now: this one's depressed, that one's 
depressed. I look at what the doctors hand out, and there
are studies that show like, one fifth of Americans suffer
from a mental illness, and suicide is the number-two
killer among teenagers and all this crap … I mean
everybody's messed up.”
“What's your point?”
“We wear our problems differently. Like I didn't talk
and stopped eating and threw up all the time—”
“You threw up?”
“Yeah. Bad. And I stopped sleeping. And when I started
doing that, my parents noticed and my friends noticed,
sort of—they kinda made fun of me—but I could go
through the world without really letting on what was
wrong. Until I came here. Now it's like: something is
wrong. Or was wrong, because it feels like it's getting
better.”
“What does this have to do with me?”
“You're out there about your problems,” I say. “You
put them on your face.”
She stops, puts her hand in her hair.
“I cut my face because too many—too many people
wanted something from me,” she tries to explain.
“There was so much pressure, it was—”
“Something to live up to?”
“Exactly.”
“People told you you were hot and then all of a sudden
they treated you different?”
“Right.”
“How?”
She sighs. “You have to be the prude or the slut, and if
you pick one, other people hate you for it, and you can't
trust anyone anymore, because they're all after the same
thing, and you see that you can never go back to how it
was before …”
She pulls her face into one of those faces that could be
laughing or crying—they use so many of the same
muscles—and leans forward.
“And I didn't want to be part of it,” she says. “I didn't
want to be part of that world.”
I grab her leaning into me, feel for the first time the soft
dimple of her body. “Me neither.”
She puts her arms around me and we hold each other
like that from our two chairs, like a house constructed
over them, and I don't move my hands at all and “I
wasn't doing well there.”
“What were you getting?”
“Ninety-threes.”
Oh.” Noelle nods.
“Yeah.” I fold my arms. “I think you're really smart.
You probably get good grades.”
“Not really.” She puts her chin in her palms like
someone in a painting. “You're not very good at giving
compliments.”
“What?”
“I'm smart! C'mon.” “You're attractive, too!” I say.
“Does that work?
You're attractive! Did I say that already? I said it the
other day, right?”
“Attractive? Craig, real estate is attractive. Houses.”
“Sorry, you're beautiful. What about that?” I can't
believe I'm saying it. We'll both be out of here in two
days; that's why I'm saying it. No regrets.
“Beautiful's all right. There are better ones.”
“Okay, okay, cool.” I crack my neck—
“Ewwww. ““What?”
“Don't do that. Especially when you're about to
compliment me.”
“Fine, okay. What are better words than beautiful?”
She puts on a Southern accent: “'Go-geous.'”
“Okay, okay, you're gorgeous.”
“That sounds terrible. Do it my way: go-geous.”
I do it.
“You can't even do a Southern accent? Oh my gosh, are
you even from America?”
“Gimme a break! I'm from here!”
“Brooklyn?
“Yeah.”
“This neighborhood?”
“Yeah.”
“I have friends here.”
“We should meet up sometime.”
“You're so terrible. Try some more compliments.”
“Okay.” I dig down deep. I got nothing. “Um . . .”
“You don't know any more?”
“I'm not good at words.”
“See, this is why the math nerds don't get girls.”
“Who said I was a math nerd? I told you my grades
suck.”
“You might be one of those nerds who's not smart.
Those are the worst kind.”
“Listen,” I stop her. “I'm really glad you're here talking
with me, and I've met a lot of people in here.”
“Uh-oh,” she says. “Is this the part where it gets all
serious?”
“Yes,” I say. And when I say it, the way that I say it, I
see that she understands that I'm serious about being
serious. I can be serious now. I've been through some
serious shit and I can be serious like somebody older.
“I like you a lot,” I start. No regrets. “Because you're
funny and smart and because you seem to like me. I
know that's not a good reason, but I can't help it; if a
girl likes me I tend to like her back.”
She doesn't say anything. I dip my head at her. “Um, do
you want to say anything?”
“No. No! This is fine. Keep going.”
“Well, okay, I've been thinking about how to put this. I
like you for all this stuff but I also kind of like you for
the cuts on your face—”
“Oh no, are you a fetishist?”
“What?”
“Are you like a blood fetishist? There was one of them
in here before. He wanted to make me like his Queen of
the Night or something.”
“No! It's nothing like that. It's like this: when people
have problems, you know … I come in here and I see
that people from all over have problems. I mean, the
people that I've made friends with are pretty much a
bunch of lowlifes, old drug addicts, people who can't
hold jobs; but then every few days, someone new
comes in who looks like he just got out of a business
meeting.”
Noelle nods. She's seen them too: the scruffy youngish
guy who came in today with a pile of books as if it were
a reading retreat. The guy who came in yesterday in a
suit and told me in the most practical way that he heard
voices and they were a real pain in the ass; they didn't
say anything scary but they were always saying the
stupidest stuff while he was in trial.
“And not only in here: all over. My friends are all
calling me up now: this one's depressed, that one's
depressed. I look at what the doctors hand out, and there
are studies that show like, one fifth of Americans suffer
from a mental illness, and suicide is the number-two
killer among teenagers and all this crap … I mean
everybody's messed up.”
“What's your point?”
“We wear our problems differently. Like I didn't talk
and stopped eating and threw up all the time—”
“You threw up?”
“Yeah. Bad. And I stopped sleeping. And when I started
doing that, my parents noticed and my friends noticed,
sort of—they kinda made fun of me—but I could go
through the world without really letting on what was
wrong. Until I came here. Now it's like: something is
wrong. Or was wrong, because it feels like it's getting
better.”
“What does this have to do with me?”
“You're out there about your problems,” I say. “You
put them on your face.”
She stops, puts her hand in her hair.
“I cut my face because too many—too many people
wanted something from me,” she tries to explain.
“There was so much pressure, it was—”
“Something to live up to?”
“Exactly.”
“People told you you were hot and then all of a sudden
they treated you different?”
“Right.”
“How?”
She sighs. “You have to be the prude or the slut, and if
you pick one, other people hate you for it, and you can't
trust anyone anymore, because they're all after the same
thing, and you see that you can never go back to how it
was before …”
She pulls her face into one of those faces that could be
laughing or crying—they use so many of the same
muscles—and leans forward.
“And I didn't want to be part of it,” she says. “I didn't
want to be part of that world.”
I grab her leaning into me, feel for the first time the soft
dimple of her body. “Me neither.”
She puts her arms around me and we hold each other
like that from our two chairs, like a house constructed
over them, and I don't move my hands at all and neither
does she.
“I didn't want to play the smart game,” I tell her. “And
you didn't want to play the pretty game.”
“The pretty game's worse,” she whispers. “Nobody
wants to use you for being smart.”
“People wanted to use you?”
“Someone did. Someone who shouldn't.”
I stop.
“I'm sorry.”
“It wasn't you.”
“Should I not touch you?”
“No, no, you didn't do anything. It's okay. But… yeah.
It happened. And I lied before.”
“About what?”
“It doesn't matter what kind of surgery I have. I did it
with half a scissor, Craig. It's going to leave scars. I'll
have scars for the rest of my life. I didn't know what I
was doing. I just wanted to get off the world a little
after this… this thing… and now I'm never going to be
able to have a job or anything. What are they going to
say when I go into a job interview looking like . . .” She
sniffles, chuckles, and snot comes out. “. . . like a
Klingon?”
“There are places in California where they speak
Klingon. You can get a job there.”
“Stop it.”
We're still holding each other. I don't want to look up. I
keep my eyes closed. “There are antidiscrimination
laws too. They can't not hire you if you're qualified.”
“But I look like a freak now.”
“I told you, Noelle,” I say into her ear. “Everybody has
problems. Some people just hide their crap better than
others. But people aren't going to look at you and run
away. They're going to look at you and think that they
can talk to you, and that you'll understand, and that
you're brave, and that you're strong. And you are.
You're brave and strong.”
“You're getting better at the compliments.”
“Nah. I'm nothing. I can barely hold food down.”
“Yeah, you're skinny.” She laughs. “We need to fatten
you up.”
“I know.”
“I'm glad I met you.”
“You're bare and honest, Noelle; that's what you are.”
Words come into my head like they've always been
there. “And in Africa your scarring would be highly
prized.”
She sniffles again. “I didn't like seeing you with that
other girl.”
“I know.”
“You like me more, right?”
“Right.”
“Why?”
I pull away from her—maybe the first time in my life
I've ended a hug—because a level of eye contact is
required.
“I owe you a lot more than I do her. You really opened
my eyes to something.” My actual eyes have been
closed for so long on Noelle's shoulder that the hall is
blinding. But when they readjust I see the Professor,
watching us from her door, holding the doorknob with
one hand and her shoulder with the other.
“I wanted to show you this.” I reach under my chair to
pick up something for our meeting—I had it down there
as a trump card. I didn't think the date would go like
this; I thought it would all be Noelle yelling at me and
I'd have to do something drastic. But now I can do
something drastic and it'll be like a cherry on top.
I pull out my couple's brain map and show it to her.
“It's beautiful!”
“It's a guy and a girl, see? I didn't do any hair, but you
can see how one has a feminine profile and the other is
masculine.” They're lying down, not on top of each
other, just side by side, floating in space. They have
sketched-out legs and arms at their sides, but that's the 
whole point of my brain maps—you don't need to
spend a lot of time on the legs or the arms. What they
really have are brains—full and complete with whirling
bridges and intersections and plazas and parks. They're
the most elaborate ones I've done yet: divided
thoroughfares, alleys, cul de sacs, tunnels, toll plazas,
and traffic circles. The paper is 14” x 17” and I had
room to make the maps huge; the bodies are small and
unimportant; the key thing that your eye is drawn to
(because I understand now, somehow, that that's how
art works) is a soaring bridge between the two heads,
longer than the Verrazano, even, with coils of ramps
like ribbons mashed up at each end.
“It might be my best yet,” I say.
She looks it over; I see the red in her eyes, fading.
There aren't any tear streaks—I still haven't seen actual
tear streaks on anyone. Her tears went right into my
shirt; they cool and chafe now on my shoulder.
“You were the one who suggested I do stuff from
childhood,” I continue. “I used to do these when I was a
kid, and I forgot how fun they were.”
“I bet you never did them like this.”
“No, well, this is easier, because I don't have to finish
the maps.”
“It's beautiful.”
“Thanks for getting me started. I owe you big.”
“Thank you. Do I get to keep it?” She looks up.
“Not yet. I have to fix it up.” I stand, stretch my back,
and shrug down at her.
Do it, soldier.
Yes, sir!
“But, um, I kind of wondered if I could have your
phone number, so I can call you when we're out of
here.”
She smiles and her cuts outline her face like a cat's
whiskers. “Crafty.”
“I am a guy,” I say.
“And I hate boys,” she says.
“But a guy's different,” I say.
“Maybe a little,” she says.
Chapter Forty-Two
Humble is back at dinner. He has entirely new clothes, a
sparkly clean-shaven face, and eyes that won't quite
open all the way; he stations himself at his usual table
under the TV in the dining room, which everyone left
empty while he was gone. Noelle ‘s there too, at the
next table, her back to him; I walk in, say hi to both of
them, grab the tables, put them together, and sit
between them, smiling.
“Noelle, I don't know if you've had the chance to meet
Humble.”
“Not really,” she says. She's still grinning. From our
date, I hope.
“Humble, Noelle. Noelle, Humble.”
“Uhhhhhh . . ."he says, squinting his eyes. “Those cuts
on your face are trippy.”
“Thanks?” They shake hands.
“You have a good handshake for a girl,” says Humble.
“You have a good one for a guy.”
My dinner is beans and hot dogs and salad, with
cookies and a pear at the end. I tackle it.
“So where'd they take you?” I ask between bites.
“Across the hall to geriatric,” says Humble.
“With the old people?” Noelle asks.
“Yeah. That's where they take you when they have to
get you whacked outta your mind.”
“Where'd you hear the term ‘wack'?” Noelle asks.
‘"Whacked?"'Humble picks a piece of salad out of his
teeth with his thumb.
“No, she thinks you're saying ‘wack,'like ‘that's
wack,'” I explain.
“Wack, wacky, whacked, it's all the same word. This is
an old word. I used to have an uncle named Wacky—
what are you laughing at? Man, don't start with me.
This kid is a lot of trouble.”
“Yeah, I know,” says Noelle. And she bangs her knee
against my thigh. Awesome. A girl hasn't done that to
me since like fourth grade. “He's a mess.”
“I know,” says Humble. “It's because he's too smart for
his own good. He comes in here; he's burned out. I've
seen it before. I see it all the time, but in people in their
twenties, thirties. This guy is so smart that he got burnt
out in half the time. He's having like a midlife crisis as
a teenager.”
“Forget the midlife crisis,” I say. “It's all about the
sixth-life crisis.”
“What the hell is that?”
“Well…” I look at Noelle. She's not going to hit me
with her leg again? I'm not sure if I want to talk. I don't
want to bore her. But I know I won't bore Humble, and
if I don't bore her either, that would make it like a
major victory.
“Well, first there's the quarter-life crisis,” I say. “That's
like the characters on Friends—people freaking out that
they won't get married. Twenty-year-olds. That's
probably true that people get quarter-life crises; I
wouldn't know. But I know that now things work faster.
Before you had to wait until you were twenty to have
enough choices of things to do with your life to start
getting freaked out. But now there's so much stuff for
you to buy, and so many ways you can spend your time,
and so many specialties that you need to get started on
very early in life—like ballet, right, Noelle, when did
you start ballet?”
“Four.”
“Okay. I started Tae Bo at six. So there are like— so
many people angling for success and so many colleges
you're supposed to get into, and so many women you're
supposed to have sex with—”
“You gotta freak them,” says Johnny from across the
room.
“Were we talking to you?” Humble asks.
“Huh, eat your salt.”
“What, tough guy? How about I knock your head off,
how would you like that—”
“Boys.” Noelle stands up and pulls her hair away from
her cheeks, which are red in addition to being cut up.
Everybody shuts up.
“So now,” I continue, “instead of a quarter-life crisis
they've got a fifth-life crisis—that's when you're
eighteen—and a sixth-life crisis—that's when you're
fourteen. I think that's what a lot of people have.”
“What you have.”
“Not just me. It's the . . . um . . . should I keep going?”
“Yes,” Noelle says.
“Well, there are lot of people who make a lot of money
off the fifth- and sixth-life crises. All of a sudden they
have a ton of consumers scared out of their minds and
willing to buy facial cream, designer jeans, SAT test
prep courses, condoms, cars, scooters, self-help books,
watches, wallets, stocks, whatever … all the crap that 
the twenty-somethings used to buy, they now have the
ten-somethings buying. They doubled their market!”
Bobby has pulled up a chair next to me. “This kid is a
freakin'lunatic,” he says.
“I hope they keep him in here,” says Humble.
“So pretty soon.” I keep thinking. “There'll be seventhand eighth-life crises. Then eventually a baby will be
born and the doctors will look at it and wonder right
away if it's unequipped to deal with the world; if they
decide it doesn't look happy, they'll put it on
antidepressants, get it started on that particular
consumer track.”
“Hmmmmmmmmmmmm,” Humble says. I think he's
going to follow it up with something, but instead he
says: “Hmmmmmmmmmmmm.”
Then:
“Your problem is you have a worldview totally in
formed by depression.” He leans in. “What about rage?”
“I was never big on rage.”
“Why?”
“It's so much more angry in my head than it could ever
be outside.”
“Extra cookies!”
It's one of the nurses. We all get in line; it's oat meal
and peanut butter. As I shuffle forward, Noelle nudges
me from behind; when I turn to her, she turns her face
away as if I were trying to kiss her but she wouldn't let
me.
“You're trouble,” I say.
“You're silly,” she answers.
I did it. I talked and she liked me; she thought I was
smart. I start to develop a plan. Once I get my cookies, I
go to the phone to call Dad, who's already bringing
Blade II tomorrow night. I want him to bring something
else too.
Chapter Forty-Three
This is your last full day at the hospital, is what I think
when I get up—no one's taking my blood today (it's
only happened once since Sunday) so I don't get up
super-early, but I'm still the first one in the halls. I take
my shower and think about how much life would suck
if hot water didn't come out of the show-erhead when
you wanted. I've tried to take cold showers and they're
wonderful when they're over, but during the process
they feel like some form of animal torture. But then
again, that's the point—when you take a cold shower
you're supposed to get in and out as fast as possible;
that's why they do it in the army.
That's right! Want to take a shot, soldier?
I don't think so. Sir.
C'mon, what's the matter with you? You got a lot going
for you; you don't want to keep it going?
I need a cold shower to keep things going?
That's right. Less time in the shower, more in the
battlefield.
Fine.
I can do this. I reach out and twist the temperature knob
slowly to the left, then decide that I'm never going to
get it done gradually so I'll have to do it like a BandAid—I jerk it over. The water goes from toasty warm to
frigid so quickly that it feels like it burns me. I bend my
groin out of its path but I know that's cheating, so I
stick it back in as I furiously lather myself. Leg: up!
Down! Other leg: up! Down! Crotch: uh, scrub scrub
scrub. Chest: wipe. Arm: down! Back! Other arm:
down! Back! Neck, face, turn around, wash your butt,
and I'm out! Straight to the towel. I wrap it around
myself and shiver.
I'm so desperate to put my clothes on that my socks
stick to my wet feet. I go out to talk with Smitty.
“You okay?”
“First cold shower.”
“Of the day?”
“Of my life.”
“Yeah, that'll knock ya.”
“What's the news?”
Smitty holds up his paper. It seems that a new candidate
is running for Mayor of New York promising to give
everyone who votes for him a lap dance. He's a
multibillionaire, and at $100 per lap dance, he thinks he
can lock up the vote. A lot of women are supporting
him.
“That's crazy.” I shiver. “It's like . . . Who's out there
and who's in here, you know?”
“Absolutely. Better music in here, though.” Smitty
turns up the radio.
“By the way, that's a question I have—can I play some
music on the hall tonight? At the other end?”
“What kind?”
“There's no words, don't worry, nothing offensive. It's
something one of the people on the hall will like. Like a
gift.”
“I'll have to see it first.”
“Okay. And you know I'm bringing that Blade ? movie
tonight to watch with the group.”
“You think about that a minute. You're bringing a
vampire movie onto a floor full of psych patients.”
“They can handle it.”
“I'm not gonna get any nightmares?”
“Promise.”
“Nightmares are a big problem in my job, Craig.”
“Understood.”
Smitty sighs, puts his paper down, and gets up. “You
want me to do your vitals?”
He straps me in on the chair, pumps me up, and puts his
soft fingertips on my wrist. Today I'm 120/70. First day
I haven't been perfect.
Chapter Forty-Four
“How're you doing?” Dr. Minerva is like.
It's 11 A.M. I sigh. After vitals was breakfast, where
the guy who was afraid of gravity and Rolling Pin
Robert were gone—Humble told me and Noelle that
they got discharged. Toward the end of the meal, Noelle
touched her leg against mine for as long as it took me to
drink the first sip of my after-breakfast Swee-TouchNee tea, which was a big sip. Then Monica announced
that we'd be screening Blade II tonight opposite the
smoking lounge and everybody got excited, especially
Johnny: “Huh, that movie is cool; a lotta vampires die.”
No announcements about my music, but then again it
hadn't arrived yet.
I took my Zoloft in my little plastic cup and drew some
brain maps by the window in the corner of the hall next
to Jimmy. I handled my phone messages, started
thinking seriously about what I'd do the moment I got
out—would I buy a cup of coffee? Walk to the park?
Go home and start in on the e-mail?—and that got me
started thinking about e-mail, and all of a sudden I was
really glad to have Dr. Minerva to go to.
“I'm doing okay, I think.”
She looks at me calm and steady. Maybe she's my
Anchor.
“What's got you in doubt, Craig?”
“Excuse me?”
“You said you were okay ‘you think.'Why do you just
think it?”
“That's an expression,” I say.
“This isn't the place to be leaving if you're not feeling
better, Craig.”
“Right, well, I've been thinking about my e-mail.”
“Yes?”
“I'm really worried about getting out there and having
to check it. The phones I'm caught up with, but the email might be pretty deadly.”
“Deadly . . . How can e-mail be deadly, Craig?”
“Well.” I lean back, take a deep breath. Then I
remember something. “You know how I had a lot of
problems with starting and stopping my sentences
before?”
“Yes.”
“Not lately.”
“Really?”
“Yeah, it's like the opposite, like words can just pour
out of me, the way they used to, when I used to get in
trouble in class.”
“Which was…” She focuses on her pad to write this
down.
“A year ago . . . Before I went to Executive PreProfessional.”
“Right—now tell me about the e-mail.”
“The e-mail.” I put my hands on the table. “I hate it.
Like, right now, I haven't been checking it for five
days, okay?”
“Since Saturday.” She nods.
“That's right. Now, what are people thinking while
they're trying to reach me? These are people who
probably already have some idea where I am because
Nia told Aaron the number and he figured it out.”
“Right: a big source of shame for you.”
“Yes. But even if someone has no idea where I am,
what are they thinking? Five days. They're like: He's
crazy. He must have OD'ed or something. Everyone is
expecting me to answer them instantly and I'm not able
to.”
“Who e-mails you, Craig?”
“People who want homework assignments, teachers,
school clubs, announcements about charities I should
volunteer in, invitations to Executive Pre-Professional
football, basketball, squash games …”
“So they're mostly school-related.”
“They're all school-related. My friends don't e-mail
me. They call.”
“So why don't you just ignore the e-mails?”
“I can't!”
“Why not?”
“Because then people will be offended!”
“And what happens then?”
“Well, I won't get to join clubs, get credits, participate
in stuff, get extra-credit. . . I'll fail.”
“At school.”
“Right.” I pause. No, it's not exactly school. It's what
comes after school. “At life.”
“Ah.” She pauses. “Life.”
“Right.”
“Failing at school is failing at life.”
“Well… I'm in school! That's the one thing I'm
supposed to do. I know a lot of famous people didn't do
well at school, like James Brown; he dropped out in
fifth grade to be an entertainer, I respect that… but
that's not going to be me. I'm not going to be able to do
anything but work as hard as possible all the time and
compete with everyone I know all the time to make it.
And right now school's the one thing I need to do. And
I'm away from the e-mail and I can't do it.”
“But your definition of school isn't really one thing, it's
many different things, Craig: extracurricular activities
plus sports plus volunteering. That's not to mention
homework.”
“Right.”
“How anxious would you say you are about all of this,
Craig?”
I think back to what Bobby said, about anxiety being a
medical thing. The e-mail has been in the back of my
mind since I got here, the nagging knowledge that when
I get out I'll have to sit on the computer for five or six
hours going through everything I've missed, answering
it in reverse order because that's the way it comes in
and therefore taking the longest time to respond to the
people who e-mailed me in the most distant past. And
then as I'm answering them more will come in, and
they'll sit on top of my stack and mock me, dare me to 
answer them before digging down, telling me that I
need them, as opposed to the one or two e-mails that are
actually about something I care about. Those will get
saved to the end, and by the time I have the time to deal
with them, they'll be so out of date that I'll just have to
apologize: Sorry, man. I haven't been able to answer
my e-mail. No, I'm not important, just incapable.
“Craig?”
“Very anxious,” I answer.
“The e-mail anxiety, and the failure talk . . . These are
subjects you've brought up before. They're very
distressing to you.”
“I know. I'm sweating.”
“You are?”
“Yeah. And I haven't been sweating for a while.”
“You've been away from your Tentacles.”
“Right. Not anymore. Now I get to go back and they're
all right there for me.”
“Do you remember what I asked you last time, about
whether or not you'd found any Anchors in here?”
“Yes.”
She pauses. In order to ask a question, it is often
possible for Dr. Minerva only to intimate that she might
ask a question.
“I think I've found one,” I sigh.
“What's that?”
“Can I get up and get it?”
“Absolutely.”
I leave the office and walk down the hall, where Bobby
is leading a new recruit on his welcoming tour—a black
guy with wild teeth and a stained blue sweatsuit.
“This is Craig,” Bobby says. “He's real young, but he's
on the level. He does drawings.”
I shake the man's hand. That's right. I do drawings.
“Human Being,” the man says.
“That's his name,” Bobby explains, rolling his eyes.
“Your name isn't Craig; it's Human Being too,” the
man says.
I nod, break the handshake, and keep walking to my
room. It's literally like breaking away from a monster—
the further I get from thinking about e-mail and Dr.
Minerva and the fact that I'm going to have to leave
here and go back to Executive Pre-Professional, the 
calmer I get. And the closer I get to the brain maps, to
this little stupid thing I can do, the calmer I get.
I walk past Muqtada—he's staring and trying to sleep—
and take my art off the radiator cover. I cradle it in a
stack past Bobby and Human Being— who's now
explaining how his real last name is Green and that's
what he needs, some green—back into the office.
“I kinda like it in here,” I say to Dr. Minerva.
“This room?”
“No, the hospital.”
“When you're finished, you can volunteer.”
“I talked to the guitar guy Neil about that. I think I'll
try. I can get school credit!”
“Is that the reason you should volunteer, Craig—”
“No, no …” I shake my head. “I'm just joking.”
“Ah.” Dr. Minerva cuts her face into a wide smile. “So
what do we have here?”
I plop them down on the table. There are two dozen
now. No kind of crazy breakthroughs, just variations on
a theme: pigs with brain maps that resemble St. Louis,
my couple for Noelle joined by the sweeping bridge, a
family of metropolises.
“Your artwork,” she says.
She leafs through them, going “Oh, my” at the
particularly good ones. I constructed this stack last
night—not just for Dr. Minerva, for anybody. The brain
maps have a certain order. Ever since I've been doing
them, they've been making it clear that they should be
stacked for presentation.
“Craig, these are wonderful.”
“Thanks.” I sit down. We were both standing. I didn't
even notice.
“You started these because you used to do them when
you were four?”
“Right. Well. Something like them.”
“And how do they make you feel?”
I look at the pile. “Awesome.”
She leans in. “Why?”
I have to think about that one, and when Dr. Minerva
makes me think, I don't get embarrassed and try to skip
it. I look to the left and stroke my chin.
“Because I do them,” I say. “I do them and they're
done. It's almost like, you know, peeing?”
“Yes . . .” Dr. Minerva nods. “Something you enjoy.”
“Right. I do it; it's successful; it feels good; and I know
it's good. When I finish one of these up I feel like I've
actually done something and like the rest of my day can
be spent doing whatever, stupid crap, e-mail, phone
calls, all the rest of it.”
“Craig, have you ever considered the fact that you
might be an artist?”
“I have other stuff too,” I keep going. What'd she say?
“First of all I was thinking about this perpetual candle,
like a candle on the ground with another candle hanging
upside-down over it, and as the first candle melts the
wax is kept molten by some kind of hot containment
unit and gets pumped up to the second candle and drips
down like a stalactite-stalagmite thing, and then I was
also thinking: what if you filled a shoe with whipped
cream? Just a man's shoe, filled with whipped cream?
That's pretty easy to do. And then you could keep
going: a T-shirt filled with Jell-O, a hat full of
applesauce . . . that's art, right? That kind of stuff.
What'd you say about artists?”
She chuckles. “You seem to enjoy what you're doing
here.”
“Yeah, well, duh, it's not the most difficult thing in the
world.”
“You're not sweating now.”
“This is a good Anchor for me,” I say. I admit. I admit
it. It's a stupid thing to admit. It means that I'm not
practical. But then again, I'm already in the loony bin;
how practical am I going to get? I might have to give up
on practical.
“That's right, Craig. This can be your Anchor.” Dr.
Minerva stares at me and doesn't blink. I look at her
face, the wall behind her, the door, the shades, the table,
my hands on the table, the Brain Maps between us. I
could do the one on the top a little better. I could try
putting some wood grain in there with the streets. Knots
of wood in people's heads. That could work. “This can
be my Anchor.” I nod. “But. ..”
“What, Craig?”
“What am I going to do about school? I can't go to
Executive Pre-Professional for art.”
“I'm going to throw a wild notion at you.” Dr. Minerva
leans back, then forward. “Have you ever thought about
going to a different school?”
I stare ahead.
I hadn't. I honestly hadn't.
Not once, not in my whole life, not since I started there.
That's my school. I worked harder to get in than I did
for anything else, ever. I went there because, coming 
out of it, I'd be able to be President. Or a lawyer. Rich,
that's the point. Rich and successful.
And look where it got me. One stupid year—not even
one, like three quarters of one—and here I am with not
one, but two bracelets on my wrist, next to a shrink in a
room adjacent to a hall where there's a guy named
Human Being walking around. If I keep doing this for
three more years, where will I be? I'll be a complete
loser. And what if I keep on? What if I do okay, live
with the depression, get into College, do College, go to
Grad School, get the Job, get the Money, get Kids and a
Wife and a Nice Car? What kind of crap will I be in
then? I'll be completely crazy.
I don't want to be completely crazy. I don't like being
here that much. I like being a little crazy: enough to
volunteer here, not enough to ever, ever, ever come
back.
“Yes,” I say. “Yes. I have thought about it.”
“When? Just now?”
I smile. “Absolutely.”
“And what do you think?”
I clap my hands together and stand up. “I think I should
call my parents and tell them that I want to transfer
schools.”

Chapter Forty-Five
“Visitor, Craig,” Smitty pokes his head into the dining
room. I slide my chair back from the table, where I'm
playing after-lunch poker with Jimmy and Noelle and
Armelio. Jimmy doesn't really have any idea how to
play, but we deal him cards and he plays them face
down and smiles and we give him more chips (we're
using scraps of paper; the buttons are locked up due to
our recklessness) whenever he pockets his or chews
them up.
“I'll be back,” I say.
“This guy, so busy,” says Armelio.
“He thinks he's all important,” Noelle says.
“I woke up, and the bed was on fire!” says Jimmy.
We all look at him. “You okay, Jimmy?” I ask.
“My mom hit me in the head. She hit me in the head
with a hammer.”
“Oh, wow.” I turn to Armelio. “I heard him say stuff
like this down in the ER. Has he talked about this
before?”
“No, nuh-uh, buddy.”
“Hey, Jimmy, it's okay.” I put my hand on his shoulder.
At the same time, I bite my tongue. You can think
someone's hilarious and want to help them at the same
time.
“She hit me in the head,” he says. “With a hammer!”
“Yeah, but you're here now,” Noelle says. “You're
safe. Nobody's going to hit you in the head with
anything.”
Jimmy nods. I keep my hand on his shoulder. I keep my
tongue bit down, but I make little chuffing noises as I
try to keep from laughing, and he looks up and notices.
He smiles at me, then laughs himself, then picks his
cards up and claps my back.
“It'll come to ya,” he says.
“That's right. I know it will.”
I excuse myself from the room and head down the hall.
Right at the end is Aaron, holding the record I want.
Dad didn't have it.
“Hey, man,” he says sheepishly, and as I approach, he
leans it against the wall. He's a dick, but I'm not perfect
either so I come up and hug him.
“Hey.”
“Well, you were right. My dad had it—Egyptian
Masters Volume Three.”
“I so appreciate this.” I take the record. It's got a picture
on the cover of what looks like the Nile at dusk, with a
palm tree lilting left, echoing the brightening moon, and
the purple sky rolling up from the horizon.
“Yeah, I'm sorry about everything,” Aaron says. “I. ..
uh … I've had a weird couple of days.”
“You know what?” I look him in the eyes. “Me too.”
“I bet.” He smiles.
“Yeah, from now on, whenever crap goes down, you
can be like ‘Oh, Craig, I had a bad few days,'because I
will get what you're talking about.”
“What's it like in here?” he asks.
“There's people whose lives have been screwed up for a
long time, and then there are people like me, whose
lives have been screwed up for . . . you know . . .
shorter.”
“Did they put you on new drugs?”
“No, same ones I was on before.”
“So are you feeling better?”
“Yeah.”
“What changed?”
“I'm going to leave school.”
“You're what?”
“I'm done. I'm going somewhere else.”
“Where?”
“I don't know yet. I'm going to talk it over with my
parents. Somewhere for art.”
“You want to do art?”
“Yeah. I've been doing some in here. I'm good at it.”
“You're pretty good at school too, man.”
I shrug. I don't really need to explain this to Aaron.
He's been demoted from most important friend to
friend, and he's going to have to earn that, even. And
you know what else? I don't owe people anything, and I
don't have to talk to them any more than I feel I need
to.
“What's up with Nia?” I ask. Have to tread care fully
here. “I got your message, about how things were bad.”
“They got worked out. It was my fault. I got all freaked
out about her being on pills and we broke up for like, a
few days.”
“Why did that freak you out?”
“I don't need any more of that in my life, you know? I
mean, it's bad enough with my dad.”
“He's on medication?”
“Every form of medication in the book. Mom, too. And
then me, with the pot… when you come right down to
it, there isn't anybody in the household who isn't
seriously drugged except the fish.”
“And you didn't want your girlfriend to be, too.”
“Her smoking is one thing; I just … I can't really
explain it. I guess you'll have to go out with someone
for a long time to understand. If you're with somebody
and then you learn that they need to … take something
on a daily basis, you wonder— how good can you be
for them?”
“That's pretty stupid,” I say. “I met this girl in here—”
“Oh yeah?”
“Yeah, and she's really screwed up, as screwed up as
me, but I don't look at that as an insult. I look at that as
a chance to connect.”
“Yeah, well.”
“People are screwed up in this world. I'd rather be with
someone screwed up and open about it than somebody
perfect and . . . you know . . . ready to explode.”
“I'm sorry, Craig.” Aaron looks at me deep and holds
out a hand for me to slap. “I'm sorry I was a bitch to
you.”
“You were a bitch.” I slap his hand. “This album partly
makes up for it. Just, don't do it again.”
“All right.” He nods.
We stand still a minute. We haven't moved from the
crux of the hallways near the entrance of Six North. The
double doors that I came in through are eight feet
behind him.
“Well, listen,” he says. “Enjoy the record. And— hey,
they have a record player in here?”
“They still smoke in here, Aaron. They're kind of back
in time.”
“Enjoy it and be in touch, and I'm sorry once again. I
guess you won't be chilling for a while.”
“I don't know. I may never be chilling again.”
“Did you almost kill yourself to get in here?” Aaron
asks. “That's what Nia told me.”
“Yeah.”
“Why?”
“Because I wasn't capable of dealing with the real
world.”
“Craig, don't kill yourself, okay?”
“Thanks.”
“Just.. . don't.”
“I won't.”
“I'll see you soon, man.”
Aaron turns and the nurses open the door for him. He's
not a bad guy. He's just someone who hasn't had his
stay on Six North yet. I take the record to Smitty to
store behind the nurses'station.
Chapter Forty-Six
Six North doesn't need a PA system, because of
President Armelio, but it does have one, used regularly
for the simple and rhythmic messages of “Lunch is
served,” “Medication,” and “All smokers to the
smoking lounge; smokers, get your smokes.” This
afternoon it pipes up with a longer message, courtesy of
Monica.
“Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon our patient Craig
Gilner, who is leaving tomorrow, is going to be drawing
his artwork for everyone on the floor. If you'd like your
own personal piece of Craig's art, come to the end of
the hallway by the dining room. End of the dining-room
hallway, five minutes. Have fun!”
I sit down in the backmost chair, by the window that
peers out over the avenue that crosses the street I live
on, so close to my real life. I look over at my
conference chair where I meet with my parents and
Noelle. I have a second chair set up in front of me as an
art desk, with stacks of board games on it and a
chessboard on top. It's a little flimsy, but it'll do.
President Armelio is first to approach. He strides up,
barrel-chested and sure of himself, like a torpedo.
“Hey, buddy, this is great! You gonna make me one of
your heads with the maps inside?”
“That's right.”
“Well let's go, buddy. I ain't got all day!”
Right. Armelio is going to have to be done fast because
he is fast. I sketch the outline of his head and shoulders
without a second thought and start in on his brain map.
Highways, that's what Armelio has in his head—sixlane highways running parallel, streaking through a
city, with purpose and minimal on-ramps. He doesn't
have any quiet little streets or parks; it's highways and a
grid, and no rivers either. The highways hardly even
connect because Armelio doesn't mix up his thoughts;
he has one and does it and then he moves on to the next.
It's a great way to live. Especially when the biggest
thought is wanting to play cards. Cards have to be
represented in Armelio's brain somewhere. So I sketch
some streets into an ace of spades right in the middle—
it's not a great ace of spades, but Armelio gets it.
“Spades! Buddy, I crush you in spades.”
I put my initials on it, big and bold, “CG” like
“computer-generated. “
“I'm gonna keep this, for real,” Armelio says. “You a
good guy, Craig.” He shakes my hand. “You want my
number for when you go?”
“Sure.” I take out a piece of paper.
“It's an adult home,” Armelio says. “You're gonna have
to ask for Spyros, which is my other name.” He gives
me the number and moves aside, and there's Ebony,
with her cane and her velvet pants, smacking her lips.
“I heard ... that you were making your brains for
people,” she says.
“That's right! And you know who the first person who
said they were brains was?”
“Me!”
“Absolutely. Now, look” —I gesture at my stack of
work on the floor—"now I've got all this.”
“So I get paid, right?” Ebony laughs.
“Not quite; I haven't really made it yet. As an artist.”
“I know. It's tough.”
“So you just get a brain map for yourself, okay?”
“Good!”
I trace her head freehand, looking at her, not the paper. I
look down and it's pretty good. Ebony's brain …
what's in there? A lot of circles, for all the buttons she
stole. She was a nut with those buttons. Didn't mess
around. Quite a schemer. And with all of her gambling 
skill, she needs to have a Strip, like Vegas. So I get a
big boulevard in the middle and lots of traffic circles
around it, with circular parks, circular malls, little circle
lakes. It comes out looking less like a city and more like
a necklace with a central band and tons of bunched-up
jewels hanging off.
“It's pretty!” she says.
“And you're done.” I hand it to her.
“You like doing these, huh?”
“Yeah. It helps, you know . . . with my depression. I
came in here with depression.”
“Imagine having depression when you were eleven
years old,” Ebony says. “If all my children were in this
hall, this hall would be full up, I tell you.”
“You have kids?” I ask, keeping my voice down.
“I had thirteen miscarriages,” she says. “Imagine that.”
And she looks at me without any of the humor or
attitude that she usually puts on, just with big wide eyes
and empty questions.
“I'm so sorry,” I say.
“I know. I know you are. That's the thing.”
Ebony shuffles away showing off her portrait ("That's
me! See? Me!"); she doesn't leave a phone number.
Humble is next.
“All right, man, what kinda scam you got going on
here?”
“It's nothing.” I start in on Humble's bald head. Bald
heads are easy. You know, if I had to right now, I think
I could handle the lower tip of Manhattan. I look at
Humble. He raises his eyebrows at me. “Make me look
good, all right?”
I laugh. Inside Humble's head is industrial chaos.
I don't make any small blocks, just big ones—the kind
of blocks where you'd find lumber shops and factories
and bars where Humble would hang out at and work. I
put the ocean in there, to represent his hometown,
Bensonhurst, which borders the ocean, where he
hooked up with all those girls way back when. Then I
splash it with highways, erasing the streets and putting
them over the top, throwing in crazy interchanges for no
reason, making the whole thing look violent and
random, but also powerful and true—the kind of mind
that could come up with some great stuff if you
harnessed it right. When I'm done, I look up.
“I guess it's okay.” He shrugs.
I chuckle. “Thanks, Humble.”
“I want you to remember me,” he says. “No joke. When
you're a big-time artist or whatever, you gotta invite me
to one of the parties.”
“It's a deal,” I say. “But how am I going to be in
touch?”
“Oh, right—I got a number!” Humble says. “I'm gonna
be staying in Seaside Paradise; it's the same home that
Armelio is going to, but I'm going to be on a different
floor.” He gives me the number; I put it on the same
sheet as Armelio's.
“You're not gonna be in touch,” Humble says.
“I will,” I say.
“No you won't; I can tell. But it's okay. You have a lot
going for you. Just don't burn out again.”
We shake hands. Up next is Noelle.
“Hey, girl!”
“Don't you dare start calling me that. This is very nice
of you to do.”
“Least I could do. They're all such cool people.”
“You're like a celebrity now. Everyone wants to know
if I'm your girlfriend.”
“And what do you tell them?”
“'No!'And then I walk away.”
“Good call.”
“So what are you trying to pull? You already made one
of these for me. You just said it wasn't finished.”
I pull out the one I made for her, with the guy and girl
connected by the bridge, and write my phone number
on the back of it.
“Oh my gosh.”
“Now it's done.” I smile, standing up. I lean in and
whisper: “It took me like twice as long as any of the
others. And I'll make you an ever better one when I get
out—”
She pushes me away. “Yeah, like I want your stupid
art.”
“You do.” I lean back. “I saw how you looked at it
before.”
“I'll keep it to make you feel good,” she says. “That's
it.”
“Fine.”
She leans in and kisses my cheek. “Thank you, for
real.”
“You're welcome. Hey, what are you doing tonight?”
“Well … I thought I'd be hanging out in the psych
hospital. What about you?”
“I've got big plans,” I say. “We've got a movie coming
in—”
“Right, I'm not seeing that stupid movie.”
“I know.” I drop to a whisper. “But when it's halfway
done, do you want to meet in my room?”
“You're kidding.”
“No. Seriously.”
“Your roommate will be there! He's always there!”
“Trust me. Come to the room.”
“Are you going to try and make out with me?”
“If you must know? Yes.”
“I appreciate your honesty. We'll see.”
I give her a hug; she holds the brain map with her hands
wrapped around me. “And I already have your
number,” I say.
“You don't get any second chances if you lose it,” she
says. “I don't give that number out twice.”
I take a quick wanting look at her as we pull away from
each other and she moves off to the side.
Bobby is next.
“Who's that behind you?”
“Huh, who do you think?” Johnny answers.
“Come on up together, guys. I'll do you both at once.”
“Cool,” Bobby says, standing off to the side. Johnny
stands next to him and I start drawing them, their
shaggy hair and baggy clothing making for great
outlines.
“So he's drawin' us?” Johnny asks Bobby.
“Be quiet, all right?”
“Where did you guys hang out?” I ask Bobby, not
looking up from the paper. “Back when you were
garbage-heads?”
“What? You're gonna draw that?”
“No.” I look up. “I'm just curious. What
neighborhood?”
“It was the Lower East Side, but don't draw the Lower
East Side,” says Bobby. “I don't want to go back there.”
“All right, fair enough. Where do you want to live?”
“On the Upper East Side, with all the rich people,”
Bobby answers.
“Huh, me too,” says Johnny.
“Wait, no, you're getting a guitar,” I say.
“Oh, cool.”
I start on Bobby's and Johnny's brains. With Johnny,
it's fun to do a guitar in a street grid—some diagonal
streets meeting for the body and then a big wide
boulevard for the neck, a park for the head. Then I turn
to Bobby. I know the Upper East Side pretty well; it's
in Manhattan and the big thing that it has is Central
Park, so I draw that on the inside left of his head. Then I
put in the stately grid of rich streets. I know the
Guggenheim Museum is somewhere up there; I mark
that with an arrow And then I put an “X” right next to
it, on a corner where an apartment probably costs $20
million, and write Bobby's pad.
“Bobby's pad! That's right! That's where I'm headed.”
He raises his arms. “Movin'on up.”
“Enjoy.” I hand them the piece.
“Who gets what?” Johnny asks. “You want us to rip it
apart?”
“No, man, we're supposed to keep it together because
we're friends,” says Bobby. “I'll make a photocopy.”
“Where's the photocopy machine in here?”
“There isn't one! I'll do it when I get out.”
“Where's that gonna leave me?”
“With a copy!”
“I don't want a copy!”
“Would you listen to this guy? Nothing's good enough
for him—”
“Hey, Bobby,” I interrupt. “Any way I can get yours
and Johnny's phone numbers to talk to you after you
leave?”
Johnny starts to say something, but Bobby leans in and
stops him: “It's not a good idea, Craig.”
“What? Why?”
He sighs. “I've been in and out of this place a lot,
right?”
“Yeah.”
“There are good things about this place; I mean, the
food is the best around; there are good people here . . .
but it's still not a place to meet people.”
“Why not? I met you guys and you're really cool!”
“Yeah, well, all the worse, then, when you try to call
me or Johnny up and find out that we've OD'ed, or 
been shot, or come back here even worse, or just
disappeared.”
“That's a pretty negative view.”
“I've seen it before. You just remember us, okay? We
meet in the outside world, it just ruins it. You'll be
embarrassed of me and I . . .” He smiles. “… I might be
embarrassed of me, too. And I might be embarrassed of
you, if you don't keep your stuff together.”
“Thanks. You sure no numbers?”
Bobby shakes my hand. “If we need to, we'll meet.”
Johnny shakes my hand. “What he said.”
The last guy in line is Jimmy.
“I tell you, what'd I say? You play those numbers—”
“It'll come to ya!” I answer.
“It the truth!” He grins.
Ah, Jimmy. What's in Jimmy's brain? Chaos. I do up
his nearly bald head and shoulders and then start putting
the most complicated, unnecessary, wild highways
through him from ear to ear. I connect them in intricate
spaghetti ramps. In one nexus, five highways meet; I
have to erase and redraw the ramps a few times. Then I
put in the grid—a grid laid out by a hyperactive
designer, with blocks going in all different directions. 
When Jimmy's brain map is done it might look the
best—a catalog of a schizophrenic mind, but one that
works somehow.
“Here you go,” I tell him. He's sitting in a seat that he
took next to me to watch me work.
“It'll come to ya!” he says, and takes the map. I want
him to finally open up, to call me Craig, to tell me that
we came in together, but he's still Jimmy— his
vocabulary is still limited.
We sit back in our respective chairs; I doze off a bit.
Making art on demand is tiring. But the last thing I see
before I go to sleep is Jimmy unfolding his brain map
next to me and comparing with Ebony, who says of
course hers is a lot prettier. That's not a bad thing to go
to sleep to.
Chapter Forty-Seven
“Craig, are you okay?” Mom asks. I jolt up and I have a
momentary seizure that it was all a dream, all of it—the
whole Sixth North bit—but then I wonder, where would
the dream start? If it were a nightmare, it would have to
have started somewhere before I got bad; it would be
like a yearlong dream. You don't have those. And if it
were a good dream, that would mean I was still back
where it started, leaning over my parents'toilet or lying
in bed listening to my heart. I didn't need that.
“Yeah! I'm—whoa.” I sit up. They're all there— Dad,
Mom, Sarah.
“Are you forcing yourself to sleep?” Mom asks. “Are
you depressed?”
“Are you on drugs?” Sarah asks. “Can you hear me?”
“I was taking a nap! Jeez!”
“Oh, okay. It's six o'clock.”
“Wow, I was asleep for a while. I was drawing my
brain maps for people.”
“Oh, boy,” says Dad. “This doesn't sound good.”
“What are brain maps?” Sarah asks.
“That's his art,” says Mom. “This is why he wants to
change schools. Making this art makes you happy, right
Craig?”
“Yeah, wanna see?”
“Absolutely.”
I take the stack from beside me and pass it around. This
is really what I was creating the stack for, I think; to
show my parents.
“Some of the best were the ones I just did, for the
patients.”
“Very original,” Dad says.
“I like this one,” says Sarah, pointing at the pig with
quasi-St. Louis inside him.
“You put a lot of time into these, I see,” Mom says.
“Right, that's the thing: they don't actually take me
much time,” I explain. “I'm starting to get a little bored
of them, actually; I want to move to something else.”
“So how are you feeling, Craig?” Dad puts the stack
back on the floor.
“You look a lot better,” Mom says.
“I do?”
“Yeah,” Sarah says. “You don't look all freaky as
much.”
“I used to look freaky?”
“She doesn't mean freaky,'” Mom tells us both. “She
just means that when you were down, you looked a
little under the weather. Isn't that right, Sarah?”
“No, he looked freaky.”
“A flat affect, that's what the doctors call it.” I smile.
“Right, well you don't have that as much anymore,”
Sarah says.
“So you want to quit school?” Dad brings us back to the
real-deal stuff.
“I don't want to quit.” I turn to him. “I want to
transfer.”
“But that means quitting the school you're currently
at—”
“He can't handle the other school!” Sarah says. “Look
at—”
“Hold on a second. I can talk,” I say. “Guys.” I look at
all three of them in turn. “One thing that they do in here
is give you a lot of time to think. I can't explain it; once
you come in, time just slows down—”
“Well, you don't have any interruptions, that's probably
it—”
“Also I think the clocks are a little off—”
I wave my hand. “Point is, you have time to think about
how you got here. Because obviously, nobody wants to
come back. I don't want come back—”
“Good. Me neither,” says Dad. “What I said last time,
about actually wanting to be here; that was a joke.”
“Right. Hey, did you bring the movie?”
“Of course. I can watch some of it with you, right?”
“Absolutely. So anyway, I've been thinking about when
things started getting bad for me. I realized: it started
after I got into high school.”
“Uh-huh,” Mom says.
“That was the happiest moment of my life. The happiest
day. And from there on it was all downhill.”
“Right, this happens to a lot of adults,” Dad says.
“Will you stop interrupting him?” Sarah interrupts. Dad
folds his hands behind him and straightens his back.
“It's okay, Sarah. I just… I think I was concentrated on
getting into Executive Pre-Professional because it was
like, a challenge. I wanted to have that feeling of 
triumph. I never really thought about the fact that I'd
have to, you know, go to the school.”
“So you want to do art,” Mom says.
“Well, let's consider. I never really liked math. I was
good at it, but only because I liked having basic
information in front of me to get through, to reach that
feeling of accomplishment. I never really liked English.
This"—I point at the brain maps—"this is something
different. This is something I love. So I'd better do it.”
“You'd better love it,” Dad says. “Because it's a hard
life. It's mostly the artists who end up in places like
this.”
“Well, then he has to be an artist; that's where he is!”
Sarah says.
“Heh. It's pretty simple.” I stand up. “Take a look
around. I tried to go to the best high school in the city.
And this is where I ended up.”
“True.” Mom looks behind her. Solomon rushes across
our field of view.
“If I don't make some kind of big change, I'm going to
come out of here wondering how anything is different
from before, and I'm going to end up right back here.”
“Right,” says Mom. “I'm with you, Craig.”
“What art school are you going to go to?” Dad asks.
“Manhattan Arts Academy? It's easy to transfer to with
my grades—”
“Oh, but Craig, that's the school for kids who are all
screwed up,” Dad says.
I look at him. “Yeah? Dad?” I raise my wrist, show him
the bracelets. I have pride in them now. They're true,
and people can't screw with them. And when you say
the truth you get stronger.
Dad stands still for a minute, looks down at his feet, and
then looks up.
“Okay,” he says. “We'll do whatever we have to do.
You have to stay in school until you transfer, though.
That's going to be . . . until the end of the year at least, I
think.”
“I'll handle it,” I say.
“I know you will. We'll help.”
“Dinner, get ready for dinner!” President Armelio walks
toward us. “Craig and his family, dinner is almost
here!”
“How've you been eating?” Mom asks as I stretch my
legs.
“I have been. That's good.”
“It's wonderful, Craig.”
“Okay, so I'm leaving the DVD here with you.” Dad
hands it to me. “And I'm going to be back to watch it
when you're done with dinner. When will that be?”
“Seven is good. But visiting hours end at eight. You
won't get to watch the whole thing.”
“We'll see how long I can stay. You might be
surprised.”
I swallow. I actually don't want him sticking around
that long. I'll make sure Smitty gets him out.
“I'll see you tomorrow,” Mom says. “The staff tells us
we're picking you up early in the morning, before I go
to work.”
“I'll be ready.”
“We've got lots of good food at home.”
“I'll see you when I come home from school.” Sarah
hugs my waist. “I'm so happy you're back.”
I pat her head. “Are you embarrassed by this place?”
“Yeah, but whatever.”
“I am too,” I say. “It's just a good type of
embarrassment.”
Chapter Forty-Eight
Blade II… well, you have to like action movies to like
it. I myself am a big fan of action movies. They're like
the blues; there's a certain formula. You have the hero
and the villain and the girl. The hero is going to almost
die but not quite, and if there's a dog it'll be the same
story with him. There's going to be one sub-villain with
a distinguishing facial characteristic, and he's going to
get killed in a printing press or a pool.
The plot of Blade II is that Blade is a guy who runs
around killing vampires. He wears a leather coat with a
sword stuck in the back of it; he regularly just walks
around with this thing. I guess it's possible that you
could walk around a city with a sword and not have
people notice, but the chances of your not cutting your
butt open seem close to nil, especially if you're running
or doing jump flips.
Now, the real kicker is the way the vampires die. They
digitally dissolve into multicolored ash—in slow
motion. I could watch these vampires die all day. It's so
clean the way they go; they don't leave a body or
anything.
I explain all this to Humble as we help Monica roll out
the TV from the activity center and plug it in. Monica
has no idea how to use a DVD—the whole metal shiny 
disc concept scares her. We pop it in and have to hit the
TV a few times to get it going, but then it's blasting into
our eyes: Blade killing his first swath of vampires in
Prague by skidding down fire escapes, jumping over
motorcycles, and stabbing dudes with his sword.
The audience is a good cross-section of Six North—
Humble, Bobby, and Johnny; the Professor; Ebony; the
new guy Human Being; Becca; and Dad. He came in
right at seven and sat down in the corner, staying very
quiet, blending in. Jimmy came by as soon as he heard
the noise of the film and took a seat beside him.
“Hello,” Dad said.
“Your son?” Jimmy asked, pointing at me.
“Yes.”
“How sweet it is!”
Dad nodded and said, “Yes, yes it is.”
On the screen, Blade slices a vampire right through
from his groin up to his skull.
“Whoa, this is wild,” says Humble. “Did you see that?
That's worse than gonorrhea, man.”
“Did you ever have gonorrhea?”
“Please. I've had everything. You know what they say:
the Jews cut ‘em off, the Irish wear ‘em off.”
“Ewwww,” I say. “You're Irish?”
“Half,” says Humble.
“Could you be quiet? I'm trying to watch the film,” the
Professor says.
“Oh, don't start. You don't care about this movie; Cary
Grant's not in it,” says Humble.
“Cary Grant was a real man. Don't you say anything
about him.”
“I can say whatever—”
“What's that guy doing?” Bobby asks.
“He's sucking that girl's blood, can't you see?”
“I thought she was a vampire, though.”
“So? Vampires have blood.”
“Vampires ain't got no blood,” says Human Being.
“Vampires ain't got nothing but green running in their
veins, and green means money.”
“You don't know what you're talking about,” Humble
says. “If you drink blood, how are you not going to
have blood?”
“I met a lotta vampires in my time, and their blood was
always green. Been sucking me dry in their little
temples.”
“What temples?” Becca asks. “I go to temple. You
better not be talking about the Jewish people.”
“I'm Jewish too,” says the Professor. “That's why they
tried to insecticide my house.”
Noelle walks toward the TV from down the hall,
wearing a long black skirt and a white top with little
frills around the shoulders, locking eyes with me. I look
around; no seat for her.
Dad notices as soon as she becomes visible. He leans
over and gives me a look:
So is this why you've been feeling better, son?
I shrug.
She comes up to me. “There's nowhere to sit.”
“Here!” I stand up and point at my armrest.
She sits down right in the middle of the chair. “Ooh,
you warmed it! Thank you.”
“No, I meant—where am I going to sit?”
She pats the armrest.
“Darn, girl.”
I sit down and we watch Blade slice up some more
vampires. Topics discussed among the audience include
surgery, the moon, chicken, prostitution, and jobs in the 
Sanitation Department. Dad leans back and lets his eyes
fall; I had a feeling that would happen. As soon as I see
him breathing heavy and steady I get up, go to Smitty,
and I tell him that it's after eight o'clock.
“You want me to kick out your own Dad?” he asks.
“I need to be independent,” I say.
“All right.” Smitty walks down the hall with me. “Mr.
Gilner—I'm sorry; visiting hours are over.”
“Oh, hm!” He gets up. “Right. So, Craig, you'll bring
this back tomorrow?”
“Yeah,” I tell him. “Thanks.”
“Thank you for getting here and getting help.” He hugs
me. Smitty backs away. It's a big hug, and long, and
right in front of the television, but no one says anything.
“I love you,” I mumble. “Even though I'm a teenager
and I'm not supposed to.”
“I love you too,” Dad says. “Even though … eh . . . No.
I don't have any jokes about it. I just do.”
We separate and shake hands and he makes his way
down the hall, waving without looking back.
“Good-bye Mister Gilner!” a chorus of those paying
attention calls out.
I dip down next to Noelle, whisper in her ear. “That's
one; I gotta settle one more thing, and then I'll see you
in my room.”
“Okay.”
I walk down the hall and pop into my room, where
Muqtada is putting his distinctive shape in the bed,
turned toward the window, in his continuous dead
reverie.
“Muqtada?”
“Yes.”
“You remember how you wanted Egyptian music?”
“Yes, Craig.”
“I got some for you.”
“You did?” He pulls his top sheet aside. “Where?”
“I got a record over,” I say. “You know we're watching
a movie, right?”
“Yes, I hear. This sounds very violent, no good for me.”
“Right, well, in the other hall, by where the smoking
area is, I asked Smitty to put the Egyptian music.”
“And he did this thing?”
“It's ready to go on right now. You want to hear?”
“Yes.” Muqtada pushes the sheets aside in a gesture of
hope and strength and determination. It's tough to get
out of bed; I know that myself. You can lie there for an
hour and a half without thinking anything, just worrying
about what the day holds and knowing that you won't
be able to deal with it. And Muqtada did that for years.
He did that until he needed to be hospitalized. And now
he's getting up. Not for good, but for real.
I walk with him out of the room, passing Smitty at the
nurses'station and nodding at him. He opens a door
behind his desk and goes in to turn on the turntables,
changing the PA music from the normal funky lite FM
to the sounds of deep plucked strings, and rolling over
it, a voice of dangerous clarity and yearning, hitting
three ascending notes and then bending one beyond
where I thought you couldn't bend a human voice,
sounding like a man drawn out and smacked to vibrate
around a little.
“Umm Kulthum!” Muqtada says.
“Yeah! Uh . . . Who's that?”
“This is Egypt's greatest singer!” he yells. “How you
find this?”
“I have a friend whose dad has some records.”
“This I have not heard in so long!” He's grinning so
much I think his glasses are going to fall off.
Armelio is playing solitaire in the back of the hall, by
the smoking lounge. “You're out of your room, buddy?
What's going on? Is there a fire?”
“This music!” Muqtada points up to it. “This is
Egyptian!”
“You Egyptian, buddy?”
“Yes.”
“I'm from Greece.”
“The Greeks, they took all our music.”
“This?” Armelio looks up. “This ain't nothing like
Greek music, buddy.”
“You want to sit, Muqtada?” I ask him.
He looks around, then up at the music.
“The best seat'll be over here, right by the speaker.”
“Yes,” he says, and sits down.
“I don't like this,” Armelio looks up.
“What kind of music do you like, Armelio?” I ask.
“Techno.”
“Just.. . techno?”
“Yeah. Utz-utz-utz-utz. Like that.”
“Heh heh.” Muqtada laughs. “The Greek man is funny.”
“Of course I'm funny, buddy! I'm always funny! You
just don't leave your room. You want to play cards?”
Muqtada starts to leave; I stand over him and hold my
hands out. “Wait one second, man. I know you can't
play cards for money, but Armelio doesn't play for
money.”
“This I know; I do not want to play.”
“Are you sure? He's got no one else to play with.”
“That's right. My friends are all watching this stupid
movie. You want to play spades? I'll crush you in
spades.”
“Muqtada,” I say. He's still looking up at me, hands on
his armrests, ready to spring. “Remember when you
saved me from that girl?”
“Yes.”
“I'm trying to do the same thing for you now, to get you
out of your room and save you. Please. Play with
Armelio.”
He looks at me, then at the speakers.
“This I do for you, Craig. But only for you. And only
because of music.”
“Great.” I pat his back. “Go easy on him, Armelio.”
“You know that's not going to happen, buddy!”
I smile and walk down the hall, waving at them. As
soon as I get to the corner, I run—I don't have much
time—but skid to a leisurely pace by Smitty and then,
moving as slowly and calmly as I can, enter my room.
Noelle picked up on what was happening: she's already
there, sitting on my bed, looking out the window.
“You're very crafty,” she whispers. I shrug. “Come and
sit. It's a pretty view through your blinds.”
Chapter Forty-Nine
I sit down next to Noelle and it starts off right away,
like it was destined to—though I don't believe in
destiny; I just believe in biology, and hotness, and
wanting girls. There's been so much hesitation in so
many parts of my life that it's shocking to not have any
here, to just lean in and have this girl's mouth open to
mine, to be easing her down and touching her face and
feeling the cuts there but understanding, not getting
freaked out, just moving my hands down to her neck,
which is clean and smooth, and her hitting my pillow
and me next to her with my legs off the bed, still on the
floor like I was sitting in class, like my lower half had
no part in this. K-I-S-S-I-N-G.
“You're beautiful,” I stop and tell her.
“Shh, they'll hear.”
She has her hand in my hair and that reminds me that
my hands should be doing something—right now
they're just sort of touching her neck while I try and
figure out what it is about her that's so much more sexy
than Nia. It's her tongue, I think—it's a whole different
creature than Nia's. Nia's was small and flighty;
Noelle's is overwhelming—she slides it in and it almost
fills me up. It's like some deep dark part of her that I've
gotten out, that no one else has access to. She presses it 
through my teeth and I keep my eyes open, although
there's nothing in the room but scattered moonlight to
see her by. We press against each other as if we both
had prizes at the back of our mouths and we could only
get them out with the tips of our tongues.
It frickin'rocks.
I put my hands on her white top and she doesn't stop
me, not at all, and there they are, right through the soft
fabric—one on each side, that is so cool— my palms
envelop them and then rise from them and then envelop
again. I'm not really sure what to do with them. They're
bigger than Nia's; they fill up my hands. Should I
squeeze them? I try that. I look up. She's nodding. I
squeeze them again, the whole things, both at once, and
move my mouth down her chin to her neck, kissing the
underside of it where an Adam's apple would be, only
this is a real girl.
She moves her hips against me. Not her hips, her
crotch—I mean, that is a crotch, right? Girls have
crotches? Or do they have like a prettier name for them?
Wow, how far is this going to go? She presses it—
whatever it is—against my thigh. My feet have levitated
somehow and now I'm horizontal on the bed next to
her, with my hands squeezing her and my shoes—my
Rockport shoes—clanking against each other.
She says nothing. Everything is touching.
“Do you want me to?” I ask.
She nods. Or maybe shakes her head. I don't know. But
I take two fingers of my right hand and put them
through the soft seam in her top. Underneath is a bra,
I'm pretty sure—something made of mesh that wraps
around her. I twiddle my finger against it, not sure if
she can feel it. Can you feel things through a bra?
She makes noises like someone about to sneeze. When I
squeeze her breasts, she makes more; when I twiddle
the side of the bra, she doesn't make any. So I put my
fingers in all the way through her shirt and feel up the
dome of the bra—the highest point on her. An inch and
a half above sea level.
“Hold on.” Noelle lifts her butt off the bed and inserts
her hands, flat, palms-down, below herself. Now she's
got no hands. She wasn't doing anything with them
anyway, but it's weird.
“Keep going,” she says.
“Okay,” I slide my fingers, still outside her bra, around
her nipple. I decide to try something. I get the nipple
right between the knuckles on my index and middle
finger, and I squeeze.
You can't get much of a squeeze on through a bra, but
the noises are immediate.
“Unhh.”
“Um?” I look up.
“Mmmmmmn.”
Oh, this is awesome.
“Shh,” I whisper. “Smitty will come.”
“How much time do we have?” she asks.
“I don't know. A little while.”
“You're going to call me, right? When you're out? And
we're going to hang out?”
“I want to go out with you,” I say. “I really do.”
“That's what I mean. We will.” She smiles. “Where will
I tell people I met you?”
“In the psych hospital. Then they won't ask any
questions.”
She giggles—yup, a real giggle. Now we've sort of lost
the sexual nature of things. Can I get it back just by
squeezing? It's worth a shot.
“Mmmmmm.”
All right, cool, only now there's one more voice that
wants me to do one more thing. It's the same voice that
got me hooking up with Nia; it's the voice of the lower 
half of me, but it feels truer now, and it knows it can't
get away with everything it wants to do, but it insists
that we try something.
We need to test out that claim of Aaron's.
My hand moves down Noelle's body, down the seam of
the frilly white shirt to the skirt, which has a slightly
different grain to the fabric. I move down to its end, by
her knees, shocked that I don't get any resistance or
hesitancy or punches in the face. I roll the skirt up—I'm
really in danger of putting a hole through this bed at this
point—and there I find underwear. Not underwear.
Panties. Real panties!
Holy crap, I'm actually going to figure this out!
“Wow!”
Noelle gasps.
“It is like the inside of a cheek!”
“What?”
Noelle pushes me off her. The distended seam of the
shirt is repositioned; the panties are jerked back in
place; the skirt is down and the girl is up at the head of
the bed, staring at me.
“What did you say about my cheeks?!”
“No, no, shhhhh,” I tell her. “Not your cheeks, um . . .
your . .. your other cheeks.”
“My butt cheeks?” She pulls her hair over her real
cheeks, holding it there, eyes wide and angry in the
moonlight.
“No,” I whisper. Then sigh. “Let me explain. Do you
want me to explain?”
“Yes!”
“All right, but this is like privileged boy information.
I'm only telling you because we're going to be hanging
out when we get out of here.”
“Maybe we're not even. What did you say about my
cheeks?”
“No, listen, it doesn't have anything to do with your
cheeks and your cuts, all right?”
“What does it have to do with?”
I tell her.
When I'm done, there's a terrible pregnant pause, a
pause that could hold all the hatred and yelling and
screaming in the world as well as the possibility of me
getting discovered as having another girl in my room
(how did I get two? Am I a “player"?) and having to
stay here for another week, never talking to Noelle 
again, going back to the Cycling, to being unable to eat,
to move, to wake up, ending up like Muqtada. Single
moments contain the potential for complete failure,
always. But they also contain potential for a pretty girl
to say—
“That is the stupidest thing I've ever heard.”
—and to put her own finger in her mouth to test it out.
I hug her.
“What?” she asks, mouth clogged. “I don't get it. It
doesn't feel the same at all.”
I pull back. “You're so cool.” I look at her. “How did
you get so cool?”
“Please,” she says. “We should go. The movie's almost
over.”
I hug her one more time and pull her down to the bed.
And in my mind, I rise up from the bed and look down
on us, and look down at everybody else in this hospital
who might have the good fortune of holding a pretty
girl right now, and then at the entire Brooklyn block,
and then the neighborhood, and then Brooklyn, and
then New York City, and then the whole Tri-State Area,
and then this little corner of America—with laser eyes I
can see into every house—and then the whole country
and the hemisphere and now the whole stupid world, 
everyone in every bed, couch, futon, chair, hammock,
love seat, and tent, everyone kissing or touching each
other… and I know that I'm the happiest of all of them.
Chapter Fifty
Mom and Dad are dressed up to bring me out; I'm
wearing what I wore all the time in here—some khaki
pants and my tie-dyed T-shirt and my dressy shoes, my
Rockports, the ones that people complimented me on
every so often, that made me feel like a professional
patient. Mom never brought a change of clothes.
They're here early because Dad has to work; he wanted
to see me before he left. Mom is staying home today to
see that I'm all right. Then, tomorrow, Friday, I'm back
at school, but with the official notice that I can pop into
the nurse's office at any time if I feel depressed. I don't
really have to go to class for the next week; that's 
school policy. I'm encouraged to go but they don't want
to overwhelm me. It's a good deal.
It's 7:45 A.M. I've taken my last vitals—120/80— and
I'm standing at the crux of the hall by the nurses'office,
looking at the double doors I came in five days ago. It
seems like five days; it doesn't seem too long or too
short; it seems like I spent the time here that I really
spent. People are always talking about real-time—realtime stock quotes, real-time information, real-time
news—but in here I think I had real-time real time.
Armelio shakes my hand a final time.
“Good luck, buddy.”
Humble says I should stay in a little longer.
“You're gonna lose it on the outside, man.”
Bobby mumbles at me. It's too early for him.
The Professor tells me to keep doing my art.
Smitty says he heard from Neil that I was thinking of
volunteering and he hopes to see me sometime.
Jimmy ignores me completely.
Ebony says to be careful of liars and cheats and to
always respect children.
Noelle pops out of her room at 7:50, just as breakfast is
rolling in and my parents are stepping out of the
nurses'office where they were signing papers.
“I'm out in the afternoon,” she says. She's wear ing
sweatpants and a T-shirt. “Call me tonight?”
“Sure.” I touch her number in my pocket, next to her
two notes that I saved.
“How are you feeling?”
“I'm feeling like I can handle it.”
“Me too.”
“You're a really cool girl,” I say.
“You're kind of a dork, but with potential,” she says.
“That's all I'm trying for.”
“Craig?” Mom asks.
“Oh, hey guys, ah, this is Noelle. We got to be friends
in here.”
“I saw you last night,” Dad says, shaking her hand.
“A pleasure to meet you,” says Mom. Neither of them
takes a second look at the cuts on her face. My parents
have some class.
“Good to meet you too,” she says.
“Are you still in high school?” Dad asks.
“Delfin,” she says.
“A lot of pressure, huh,” says Mom.
“Yeah.”
“I think they might have to change the whole system.
Look, two people like you, smart young people, sent in
here because of pressure.”
“Mom.”
“I'm serious. I'm going to write my congressper-son
about it.”
“Mom.”
“I'll go,” Noelle says. “See you Craig.” And she dips
her leg up behind her as she turns away and flicks a
wave at me—that counts as a kiss, I think. If my parents
weren't here that would be a kiss.
“Are you ready?” Mom asks.
“Yeah. Bye, everybody!”
“Wait!” From down the hall, Muqtada moves forward
as fast as he allows himself to, which isn't very fast,
sort of like a speed walk, and hands me the record.
“Thank you, Craig. This boy, your son,” he turns to my
parents, “he has helped me.”
“Thank you,” Mom and Dad say.
I hug Muqtada and take in his smell one last time.
“Good luck, man.”
“As you go through life, you think of me and hope that
I am better.”
“I will.”
We separate and Muqtada migrates toward the dining
room and the smell of food.
I look at my parents. “Let's go.”
It's incredibly simple. The nurses open the doors for us
and there I am outside, looking at the “Shhhhhhhh!
Healing in Progress” poster I saw when I came in. The
bank of elevators stand sentry in front of us.
“Guys,” I tell them. “Can you go home yourselves, and
I'll walk after you in like one minute?”
“Why? Are you okay?”
“I just want to walk by myself a little.”
“Think things over?”
“Yeah.”
“You're not feeling . . . bad?”
“No. I just want to walk home myself.”
“We'll take your stuff.” They grab the bag of old
clothes and art I had with me, plus the record; wave,
and take the next elevator down.
I wait for thirty seconds before hitting the button
myself.
I'm not better, you know. The weight hasn't left my
head. I feel how easily I could fall back into it, lie down
and not eat, waste my time and curse wasting my time,
look at my homework and freak out and go and chill at
Aaron's, look at Nia and be jealous again, take the
subway home and hope that it has an accident, go and
get my bike and head to the Brooklyn Bridge. All of
that is still there. The only thing is, it's not an option
now. It's just… a possibility, like it's a possibility that I
could turn to dust in the next instant and be
disseminated throughout the universe as an omniscient
consciousness. It's not a very likely possibility.
I get in the elevator. It's big and shiny. There's a lot to
look at in the real world.
I don't know what I'm going to do today, still. I'm
probably going to go home, sort through my art, and
then call everybody I know and tell them that I'm going
to be switching schools and from now on they should
reach me by phone instead of e-mail. But I also might
go to the park—how come I never go to the park?—and
throw a ball around with whatever kids are out there. Or 
a Frisbee. It's a real day outside. There's actual weather
out there.
I walk through the lobby. The smells! Coffee and
muffins and flowers and scented candles from the gift
shop. Why does Argenon Hospital have a gift shop? I
guess everybody has to have a gift shop.
I step out onto the sidewalk.
I'm a free man. Well, I'm a minor, but one quarter of
your life is spent as a minor; you might as well make
the best of it. I'm a free minor.
I breathe. It's a spring day. The air is like a sheet
billowing down on me in slow motion.
I haven't cured anything, but something seismic is
happening in me. I feel my body wrapped up and
slapped on top of my spine. I feel the heart that beat
early in the morning on Saturday and told me I didn't
want to die. I feel the lungs that have been doing their
work quietly inside the hospital. I feel the hands that
can make art and touch girls—think of all the took you
have. I feel the feet that can let me run anywhere I want,
into to the park and out of it and down to my bike to go
all over Brooklyn and Manhattan too, once I convince
my mom. I feel my stomach and liver and all that
mushy stuff that's in there handling food, happy to be
back in use. But most of all I feel my brain, up there
taking in blood and looking out on the world and 
noticing humor and light and smells and dogs and every
other thing in the world—everything in my life is all in
my brain, really, so it would be natural that when my
brain was screwed up, everything in my life would be.
I feel my brain on top of my spine and I feel it shift a
little bit to the left.
That's it. It happens in my brain once the rest of my
body has moved. I don't know where my brain went. It
got knocked off-kilter somewhere. It got caught up in
some crap it couldn't deal with. But now it's back—
connected to my spine and ready to take charge.
Jeez, why was I trying to kill myself?
It's a huge thing, this Shift, just as big as I imagined.
My brain doesn't want to think anymore; all of a
sudden it wants to do.
Run. Eat. Drink. Eat more. Don't throw up. Instead,
take a piss. Then take a crap. Wipe your butt. Make a
phone call. Open a door. Ride your bike. Ride in a car.
Ride in a subway. Talk. Talk to people. Read. Read
maps. Make maps. Make art. Talk about your art. Sell
your art. Take a test. Get into a school. Celebrate. Have
a party. Write a thank-you note to someone. Hug your
mom. Kiss your dad. Kiss your little sister. Make out
with Noelle. Make out with her more. Touch her. Hold
her hand. Take her out somewhere. Meet her friends.
Run down a street with her. Take her on a picnic. Eat 
with her. See a movie with her. See a movie with
Aaron. Heck, see a movie with Nia, once you're cool
with her. Get cool with more people. Drink coffee in
little coffee-drinking places. Tell people your story.
Volunteer. Go back to Six North. Walk in as a volunteer
and say hi to everyone who waited on you as a patient.
Help people. Help people like Bobby. Get people books
and music that they want when they're in there. Help
people like Muqtada. Show them how to draw. Draw
more. Try drawing a landscape. Try drawing a person.
Try drawing a naked person. Try drawing Noelle naked.
Travel. Fly. Swim. Meet. Love. Dance. Win. Smile.
Laugh. Hold. Walk. Skip. Okay, it's gay, whatever,
skip.
Ski. Sled. Play basketball. Jog. Run. Run. Run. Run
home. Run home and enjoy. Enjoy. Take these verbs
and enjoy them. They're yours, Craig. You deserve
them because you chose them. You could have left
them all behind but you chose to stay here.
So now live for real, Craig. Live. Live. Live. Live.
Live.