December 24
Dear Ana,
I'm kind of new to this, so I don't really know what to
write. I guess I should start at the beginning. I'm Max. I turn
fifteen next August. And right now, you're pretty much the
only person I can actually talk to.
Mum and Dad say they want to help. But I know that if I
told them how I was really feeling, they'd pack me straight
off to the loony bin.
Same with Lindsay, my psychologist. Whenever I tell her
stuff, it ends up coming back to bite me, because she makes
me do stuff I really don't want to do. The other day, we
were talking about exercise, and she suddenly told me I'm not
allowed to run anymore. Like, at all. Who knows what rule
she's going to make up next.
I have two friends at school, Ram and Stu, and I have no
idea why they put up with me. I hardly ever hang out with
them now. When I do, I snap at them all the time. I don't
want to tell them about what's happening, because they'll
either run a mile or start treating me like some special case.
I'm not sure which would be worse.
Oh, and there's Robin. Don't tell him I said this, but my
brother's actually pretty cool. Sometimes. He doesn't treat
me like a special case, like Mum and Dad and Lindsay do, even
though he knows all about you. He just gets on with it. He
pretends you're not even there.
I wish I could do that.
Even so, there's loads of things I can't really talk to
him about. Because, uh, he's my brother. “Hey, Robin, is it
true that chili speeds up your metabolism? And will any girls
ever want to go near a freak like me?” There's no way I'm
going to ask him any of that stuff.
I look it up online sometimes. Okay, a lot of the time.
All the time. But I pretty much always regret it. There's
loads of people out there talking about you, Ana. And for
some reason, most of them think you're the best thing since
sliced bread. Bad choice of phrase. But you know what I mean.
If we ignore the internet weirdos, there are six people
in my life: Mum, Dad, Lindsay, Ram, Stu, and Robin. That's
everyone I've got. Who would you talk to?
That's why you're winning. That's why I'm writing this.
Because there's no one else left. There are eight billion
people on this planet, and somehow, the only person I can
actually talk to is you.
It's 12:32 a.m now. So, um, Happy Christmas!
Tomorrow's going to be super-hard. Like, the hardest
day of my life so far. Breakfast will be okay, because it'll
just be me, Robin, Mum, and Dad, and they already know what
I'm like. They won't mind when I say no to coffee and
croissants and the juice with bits in it they've bought
specially. They won't mind when I only eat one slice of
toast, with the thinnest smear of low-fat spread.
Well, they will mind. But they won't say anything.
But then, everyone else will arrive. Auntie Jess, Uncle
Rich, James, Louise, and Gran. And they've not seen me like
this.
They don't know what I'm like now.
I stay under
1
the covers as long as I can. Last year, I raced down the
stairs, hunting for my stocking, yelling at Mum and Dad to get up. Like any
normal kid.
There's a soft knock on my door. “WHAT?” I shout, and then
immediately feel bad. Getting angry over nothing is my specialty these
days.
My mum opens it a crack. “Happy Christmas, love,” she says. “Do you
want to come down?”
“In a bit,” I tell her.
“It's eight o'clock,” she says.
“I know.” I point at my wrist. My watch is on the smallest hole now, and
still hangs loose. It looks weird, like one of those tags they put on birds'
legs to study their migration patterns. I'm proud and ashamed of it at the
same time.
Mum comes into the room properly and sits down on my desk chair.
She perches on the edge of it and sits really upright, like she wants to make
the smallest possible impression on the room. I hate the way my parents are
around me now. Like they're on eggshells. Like they're waiting for me to
snap.
“Are you feeling all right about today, sweetheart? You talked it through
with Lindsay?”
It's tiring. I'm tired all the time. Some days, I go to bed at 7:00 p.m.
“It'll be fine,” I tell her, turning over in bed so I'm facing the wall. “I'll be
fine.”
“I'll drag your brother out of bed soon. Or I'll try at least. Your father's
picking Gran up right before lunch. I'm not sure about your auntie. She said
she'd call before they left.”
“Okay,” I say to the wall.
I hear her get up, but she doesn't leave the room. I can feel her eyes on
me. I pull the cover right up around my neck because I hate the thought of
anyone looking at my body. Even my mum.
“Listen, love,” she says. “If it's too much, just tell me, and we'll sort it
out. Okay?”
I don't say anything.
“Come down when you're ready. I love you.”
I wait for the door to click shut before getting up.
Even though I'm not exactly looking forward to today, I'm still excited
for my presents. Well, some of them. I've asked Mum and Dad for some
new binoculars and a book on the birds of Borneo and the new Zelda.
Auntie Jess has probably got me some clothes that won't fit. And Gran
always gets me, Robin, and Dad the same thing: one each of those little
round cheeses in a wax shell. I'll give mine to Dad this year, I guess.
But it's Robin's present I'm really excited about. Robin is super into
woodworking, and he always makes my present himself. Last year, he made
me the nest box that now hangs from the apple tree at the end of our garden.
It's still empty, but I'm hoping a nuthatch or something will use it next
spring. The year before, Robin made me a whistle that sounds just like a
little owl. He told me he thought I'd have a hoot with it. My brother makes
a lot of terrible jokes.
I look out across the garden. The squirrel's at the feeder, which is
definitely supposed to be squirrel-proof, and I can hear some wood pigeons
in the trees at the back. I like this time of day. It's quiet, and I haven't had to
think about food yet. Usually, this is when I take Sultan, our red setter, for a
walk. But not today.
I pull on some clothes and head downstairs.
“Happy Christmas, Max,” my dad says, without looking up from his
crossword, as I walk into the living room. He's sitting in his armchair, under
a mound of newspapers. The tree blinks behind him.
“Happy Christmas,” I say, heading straight past him toward the kitchen.
I help Mum lay the table. It probably sounds weird, given everything,
but I like helping with meals. It makes me feel like I'm in control.
Once the plates and cutlery are sorted, I make toast. We always have
Hovis Soft White Medium, so I know exactly how many calories are in a
slice. I put one slice in the toaster; everyone else is having croissants. The
smell of them kills me.
Robin comes down a few minutes later and punches me on the arm.
“Hey, Happy Christmas,” he says, tearing a strip off one of the croissants
Mum's just taken out of the oven. “Mmm.”
“At the table, please,” Mum says, whisking the tray away.
Breakfast is fine, I guess. There are no major incidents. I have my toast with
a smear of spread and some water. No one tries to offer me anything else.
Robin, on the other hand, demolishes a bowl of Cheerios and four
croissants. We all wait politely for him to finish.
“We're going to feed you at lunchtime, too, you know,” says Dad.
“Turkey takes ages,” Robin explains. “And Mum's only just put it in.”
“Do you not want to open your presents?” Mum asks.
“Of course,” says Robin. “Presents are very important. But if I'm
hungry, I won't be able to give them my full attention.”
In Christmas movies, kids tear the wrapping paper off the presents,
scrunch it up, and toss it on the floor. Not so in the Howarth household. Dad
insists on us reusing wrapping paper. So when we open presents, we
carefully peel off the tape, then fold up each sheet. Dad's like this with
everything. We have a huge rain barrel in the garden and solar panels on the
roof. We haven't bought a shopping bag in my lifetime. We are the only
family I know that puts pieces of aluminum foil through the dishwasher.
Seriously.
My presents are exactly what I asked for: Zelda; The Birds of Borneo
(14th edition); and a pair of Nikon 8x42s, to replace my Helios 10x32s,
which have started to go misty. I jump up and go to the patio window to try
the binoculars out. I watch the squirrel burying the nuts he's nabbed from
the feeder.
“Thanks, Mum,” I say, leaning in for a hug.
I feel Mum flinch. Hugs have gotten more awkward lately. My parents
don't like feeling my ribs through two layers of clothes.
Robin's presents are mainly tools. I have no idea what most of them are;
one looks like a mini–cheese grater. He seems happy enough.
I thought a lot about what to get my parents. I've put them through
crazy amounts of stuff this year, so I wanted whatever it was to be special.
But there's no gift that says, Sorry I had a screaming fit when I found out
you'd bought semi-skimmed milk by accident. Or, if there is, I couldn't find
it. In the end, I settled on pretty normal stuff: some new gardening gloves
for Dad and a leather-bound copy of Vanity Fair, Mum's favorite book. It
turns out they were good choices: After she opens hers, Mum won't stop
going on about how thoughtful I am.
Robin, as usual, has outdone me. He's made a vertical planter for the
front garden out of reclaimed scaffolding and bought a load of herbs to go
in it, thus making Mum, Dad, Planet Earth, and himself happy in one go.
God, he's annoying sometimes.
Even so, I decide to give him his present. Robin's other hobby, when
he's not making things out of wood, is mountain biking. He goes out to the
Forest of Dean or the Peaks most weekends. So I've got him a pair of
cycling gloves.
“Thanks, bro,” he says. “Although I'm disappointed you didn't get
gloves for Mum, too.” It hadn't occurred to me that I'd bought gloves for
two-thirds of my family. He picks up Vanity Fair. “Maybe she can make
some out of the cover?”
I punch him on the arm.
He laughs, then says, “Your turn.” He reaches way under the tree and
pulls out a rectangular present, eight inches long, six wide, four deep,
wrapped in colorful paper. When I look closer, I realize the paper's a world
map: The top side is mostly the Democratic Republic of Congo. A year or
two ago, I was really, really into maps. There are still tons of them up in my
bedroom.
I carefully detach the tape and peel back the paper. Inside is a smooth
wooden box. At first, I think it's another nest box. But there's no hole. I turn
it over. It looks exactly the same on the other side.
“Thanks, Robin,” I say. “Um, what is it?”
He winks. “I'll show you after dinner.” I go to ask him something else,
but he raises a finger to his lips. “Trust me, little bro.”
I hate it when he calls me that.
The first thing my auntie says to me when she walks through the door is,
“You're looking skinny, Max!”
Skinny. When you're like me, you kind of want to hear that word, and
you kind of don't. On the one hand, your whole life revolves around getting
thinner, and while you can interpret almost any other description (happy,
tired, hungry) as code for fat, skinny is pretty unambiguous. On the other,
the fact that someone's noticed you're skinny means they're looking at you.
At your body. Out of the eight billion bodies they could be looking at,
they've chosen yours.
Which is the worst feeling.
And it's not like it means much coming from Auntie Jess, either. My
auntie is the kind of person who tells forty-year-old men that they're
growing lads. I'm not trying to be mean, but she and Uncle Rich both have
the body shape of a Christmas pudding.
So I just nod.
She looks me up and down. Uncle Rich and James and Louise come
through the door behind her and stand next to her, to join the judging panel.
I want to die. But then Robin comes and saves me.
“And look, it's our very own Joseph of Nazareth!” Auntie squeals.
I've been standing there like a lemon for thirty seconds, but when Robin
barrels into the hallway, he immediately goes in for a hug. I'm sure he used
to be super-awkward, too. But to see him now, you'd never believe it. He
shakes Uncle Rich's hand and then crouches down and hugs my cousins. If
he wasn't wearing pajamas, you'd probably think he was a politician or
something.
Auntie Jess is my mum's sister, but they couldn't be less alike. Mum is
tall and thin and elegant; Auntie Jess looks like a hobbit, hairy feet
included. I'm fourteen, and I'm already taller than her. Mum has straight,
dark hair, whereas Auntie Jess has these amazing mouse-brown curls that
stick out in every direction. Mum's laugh is a sort of quiet wheeze. Auntie
Jess sounds like a kookaburra.
One thing they have in common is that they're both competing for the
title of World's Nicest Person. Right now, it's a toss-up to see who'll win.
Mum's on the school management committee, and the treasurer of a charity
that looks after old racehorses. Auntie Jess works at a soup kitchen every
Friday night. Mum puts up with me, but Auntie Jess puts up with Uncle
Rich. Competition continues.
No one likes my uncle. Like, at all. He's one of those people who, if you
weren't around when they became part of your family, you can't understand
how people let it happen. He always talks over Auntie Jess, even though he
has absolutely nothing to say. He smells really bad. And his only hobby
seems to be sitting in front of the TV in his boxers.
My cousins are pretty normal, considering. James is nine and likes dolls
much more than he likes the remote control cars Uncle Rich keeps buying
him. Louise just turned seven. She's totally obsessed with painting. Still
lifes, animals, portraits—she'll paint just about anything, all day long. She
asks us to model for her all the time, but you've got to have a lot of
patience: She expects you to sit there for hours. She takes a serious,
Elizabethan approach to portraiture.
Robin's now dangling Louise upside down by her ankles, while James
tickles her stomach. She's screaming her head off. My auntie and uncle are
arguing about something they've left in the car, or possibly at home. Sultan
shuffles into the hall and barks disapprovingly. Sultan is the same age as me
—fourteen—and generally doesn't get up anymore unless he's definitely
going to get a walk or some food out of it. There's too much going on, and I
can feel my heart racing. I slink off to my bedroom.
December 25
Dear Ana,
Lindsay gave me two bits of advice for getting through
today:
Make a food plan, and stick to it.
Whenever things get too much, take a break.
Apparently, if I follow these two simple steps, I can keep
you in your box. She said the big mistake people make is
thinking they can take a day off. They kid themselves that
they can ignore you for a day and it will all be fine. That's
when things go wrong.
(My opinion? No one like me has ever thought this. It's
family and friends who think stupid stuff like this. I know
I'm stuck with you, 24/7, whether I like it or not.)
Me and Lindsay wrote the plan out together, a month
ago. Then we had a special meeting with Mum and Dad to take
them through it. Mum had to leave work early to come.
That's right: I literally dragged my mum out of work to
discuss how many roast potatoes she should serve me on
Christmas Day.
The answer is three, by the way. AKA, the bare minimum
that looks normal. Christmas dinner is just a normal dinner.
Today is just a normal day. No big deal.
Why do I get the feeling you don't see it like that?
I'm currently following Lindsay's second piece of advice,
i.e., avoiding my family. They're downstairs right now,
sitting around eating a box of chocolates, because apparently
on Christmas Day you have to graze continuously like a cow.
A cow who likes chocolate. Did I mention we're eating
Christmas dinner in an hour?
In brighter news, Robin's got me a good present. At
least, I think it's a good present. I haven't exactly worked
out what it is yet. It kind of looks like the box Uncle Rich
keeps his cigars in. But that makes zero sense.
Hey, at least it's distracting me from everything else.
According to Lindsay,
2
there are three stages. Stage one is, you
want to eat less than your body wants you to. Stage one is simple. You start
to lose weight. You feel better for a little while. Then you feel terrible.
Stage two is wanting to eat less than other people want you to. People
start to notice you've lost weight and try to make you eat more. Some
people spend their whole lives in stage two, fighting people's expectations.
Some people die in stage two. When you're like me, there's nothing more
important than what people think of you. In my opinion, this is the worst
part of the whole thing. Not the disease itself, but the distance it puts
between you and everyone else.
If you can make it through that, you get to stage three: the light at the
end of the tunnel. Sort of. Stage three is, you're okay with eating anything,
as long as you're in control. You're in recovery. The bad news is, stage
three can be permanent. You never stop needing to be in control.
But there's more bad news. Because it's way, way easier to slide down
than it is to climb up. It's like a game of Snakes and Ladders where there
are no ladders. However high you climb, you're always one wrong move
away from being right back at square one.
All it takes is a little bit of pressure. One moment that you've not
prepared for. One situation that you don't know how to deal with.
Like Christmas dinner, for instance.
I spot it immediately: the blue tub with a spoon in it. Suddenly I'm on a
roller coaster, plummeting toward the ground.
“Mum,” I mumble.
Mum turns around, sees my face, connects the dots.
“It helps them crisp up, love,” Mum says. “I do it every year.”
This year isn't every year, I want to tell her. How can you not see that?
“You're not measuring,” I say.
It sounds really childish. Petty. She's putting some lard on the potatoes
and she's not measuring. So what? But that's the biggest thing about being
the way I am: Other people don't get the rules.
“I've used less than four ounces,” Mum says confidently, trying to avoid
a scene. This is what we agreed on: four ounces of fat for the potatoes, total.
This is the number I based my whole plan for the day on.
But she wasn't measuring. She can't know how much she's used, and it
looks like a lot. So, I say the thing I don't want to say, the thing I know will
upset her, because I can't not say it. “I'll just have two.”
“Max, love,” Mum says, massaging her temples.
“It's not a big deal,” I say quickly. This is one of my mantras: It's not a
big deal. I'm not sure who I'm trying to convince. “Honestly. I'll just have
two.”
Mum sighs and goes back to tossing the potatoes in the pan.
At one o'clock, Dad returns from fetching Gran, who promptly
distributes her cheeses. Then Mum tells us to go sit at the table, because
dinner's almost ready.
The dining room looks great. Mum takes entertaining pretty seriously—
I think it's a sibling rivalry thing—and it's clear the moment you look at the
table. We've each got a Christmas cracker, and a holly-print napkin folded
into a bishop's hat. And, of course, there's the centerpiece. It's a Howarth
family classic: a papier-mâché sleigh, two feet long, pulled by a grand total
of thirteen reindeer. Everyone who has Christmas dinner with us has to
make a reindeer. Mine, which I made when I was five, is an empty toiletpaper roll with pipe-cleaner legs.
I glance across at Mum. She seemed really stressed this morning, but
now, she's beaming. Mum's one of those people who seems to live entirely
for her family. I don't mean she doesn't work; Mum's a lawyer, and she
does longer hours than Dad, who works for the county council. I mean,
socially, Mum doesn't do much other than hang out with us. She never goes
to the pub with her friends like Dad does, and she's not in any clubs or
societies or anything. Which means the way things are at home pretty much
determines how happy she is. Lately, she hasn't been happy at all.
We all tell her how great the table looks, then take our seats. I'm
between Gran and Robin. I asked Mum not to put me next to Auntie Jess or
my cousins because I was worried they'd quiz me on why I wasn't eating
more.
“Christmas crackers!” Louise squeaks.
I pull my cracker with Gran. I look at her wrist, and I can't decide
whose is thinner, hers or mine. Gran lives on her own, and 90 percent of the
time, she eats these microwave meals she gets delivered—nice ones, that
come with little cards telling you about the farmers who grow the
ingredients, or where they catch the fish, or whatever. Each card also has
the number of calories in the dish printed on it. I think about this a lot: how
much easier it would be if someone did all the counting for me. If I never
had a choice.
Mum and Robin start bringing out food. Soon, the table is heaving with
plates of stuffing, potatoes, carrots, parsnips, sprouts, gravy, bread sauce,
cranberry sauce, and a huge turkey. I feel sick just looking at it all.
Mum's already made up my plate in the kitchen. She puts it down in
front of me while everyone else is helping themselves. For one sweet
moment, I think no one's noticed. But then Gran says, “Is that all you're
having, Max?”
Shit.
I can feel my cheeks burning. I'm trying to avoid looking anyone in the
eye, but it's kind of tricky when everyone around the table is looking at
you. I stare at my reindeer.
Robin tuts loudly. “No wonder, the way you were going at those
croissants this morning, Max.”
I look up at him. He winks.
Sometimes, my brother is the coolest person ever.
“What a shame,” Gran mutters. I'm pretty convinced she's about to start
lecturing me about how Your mum's gone to all this effort. But she doesn't
say anything else.
Thank God.
That's when I look down at my plate and realize Mum's given me three
potatoes. My stomach lurches again, for the second time in thirty seconds.
I've not even taken one bite yet, and Christmas dinner is already a disaster.
I mentally recalibrate. Today's really important to Mum. I'll eat the
potato and lop some calories off tea. No big deal.
Uncle Rich is talking about his new car, a hybrid. This is the third
Christmas in a row he's talked about it. The year before last, he took us
through what a good idea electric cars are in general. Last year, he had a
short list and was seriously considering a purchase. Now we get the full
review.
Robin, who's about as interested in cars as I am in woodwork, pipes up.
“You must need a really long extension cord.”
My uncle laughs in that way that also gets across how little he
appreciates being interrupted. Like when a Bond villain laughs at one of
Bond's jokes.
“Hey, Louise,” says my dad, seizing the opportunity to change the topic.
“Do you remember which reindeer is yours?”
Louise nods, like this is the stupidest question in the whole world, and
points at the reindeer at the front of the pack, which is covered from snout
to heel in pink glitter. “He's called Mr. Sparkles,” she says, shaking her
head as if she bitterly regrets this decision.
“He's a pretty great reindeer,” says Robin. “James, which is yours
again?”
James points at another reindeer, with sequins arranged all over it like
scales. It's like a disco ball in reindeer form. This is actually James's second
reindeer: A couple of years ago, he decided his first one wasn't up to
scratch.
“What's he called?” asks Robin.
“Eric,” says James.
Robin laughs. “I guess Mr. Sparkles was taken.”
I can't eat it. I'm staring at the last potato on my plate, and I can't move,
and I don't know what to do. If I leave it, I know someone will say
something. Gran, probably, or Auntie Jess. I've got to eat it. But eating one
stupid potato suddenly feels like the hardest thing in the world. Like
climbing K2 or running a hundred miles in one go.
Everyone's still talking—I don't think they've noticed anything's wrong
—but inside my head, there's just electricity. A screaming wall of static
between my brain and the rest of the world. That's something a lot of
people don't get: Anorexia hurts. Only it's a kind of pain you can't really
describe. Believe me, I've tried. It's like trying to explain color to someone
who's never seen color before.
But it hurts. Right now, it hurts so much I want to scream.
I hear Louise saying something. It sounds far away. “Is Max okay?”
I realize I have my head in my hands. I don't look up, but I can feel
everyone looking at me.
“Max?” Mum says.
“He's not finished his dinner,” says Auntie Jess. “Are you feeling all
right, Max?”
“He only had a couple of potatoes!” says Gran, amazed.
“He's probably saving room for dessert,” Robin says. “My brother sure
loves Christmas pudding.”
I know he's trying to cover for me—again—but even the idea of this
horrifies me. The idea of eating more. And now it feels like I don't have
another option. I'll have to eat Christmas pudding, and I'll have to eat
loads. A bumper portion. I looked at the packet again yesterday. Our
Christmas pudding is two pounds, and it's supposed to feed eight. I can tell
you how many calories are in each portion, how many grams of sugar and
fat. I don't try to memorize these numbers, but they stick to my brain, like
gum to a pavement.
It's an effort to look up at everyone. “That's right,” I say, with a weak
smile. I don't know what else to say.
There are eight of us around the table. Mum hates Christmas pudding,
so that's seven. And Gran eats like a bird, and Louise is only seven years
old. Which means I'll get a sixth, maybe more. This meal will be the most
calories I've eaten in one go in months.
You can't do it. No way. Don't be disgusting.
We had a plan. I was going to say I didn't like Christmas pudding, and
Mum was going to give me a meringue nest and six strawberries. But now
the plan won't work. It's not just my head that hurts anymore. It's
everything. My nerves are on fire. My limbs feel like custard.
Mum and Robin are clearing away plates. Uncle Rich is talking about
his car again, about how quiet the engine is. For once, I'm grateful. I want
him to carry on talking about his dumb car forever.
When Mum brings out the pudding, everyone coos. I look up. Blue and
pink flames lick at the sides of the dish. Dad makes some lame joke about
not wasting the alcohol.
Mum glances at me when she starts serving. It's a look that says, Please
hold it together, Max. She starts across the table, with Louise. “Ladies first,”
she says. Louise beams. “How much do you want, love?”
“Loads!”
Maybe it will be okay, if everyone has a big portion. But when I look at
Louise's bowl, I see Mum has given her barely anything.
Mum works her way around the table. When she gets to me, she dishes
out about the same amount as Louise had. I can do this, I tell myself.
But then Uncle Rich says, “C'mon, Rebecca. Give him a proper
portion.”
“I'm fine, thanks,” I say quickly.
“It's Christmas Day!” says Auntie Jess. “It's only one day.” She winks
at me.
Mum gives me an apologetic look, then digs in again and adds a little
more to my bowl. “There you go, love,” she says.
It didn't seem like she added a lot, but somehow, it grows in front of
me. It's a mountain. It looks like at least half of the pudding. In my head, I
calculate exactly how many calories that would be.
Look at it. God, it's disgusting. How could anyone eat that much
food?
I can't do it. I can't face it. I'm not strong enough.
“I'm sorry, Mum,” I say, looking up at her for as long as I can bear. I
can feel the tears coming. That rippling feeling behind my eyes.
“For what, love?” says Mum.
For spoiling Christmas. For not giving you even one day of rest. For
everything.
I pull back my chair and run.
It was stupid. I know it was. It seemed like I didn't have another option, but
there's always another option. I could've pretended I was ill. I mean coldsweats-and-puking ill, not ill-in-the-head ill. Auntie Jess asked me if I was
ill, for God's sake. Why didn't I just say yes?
I'm running toward the woods. We live on the edge of a big patch of
woodland called Shepples Common. I go there a lot, more since I've been
ill. It's where I run, or used to run. Where I walk Sultan and watch birds.
My hiding place.
Once I hit the trees, I slow down and catch my breath. Now I actually
feel ill. I guess running for ten minutes right after you've eaten a roast
dinner isn't the smartest idea.
You could make yourself sick.
The thought leaps into my head from nowhere. As Lindsay's very fond
of telling me, anorexia is different for everyone. Technically, there are like
five different types of eating disorders, and they all have different
symptoms. Anorexics starve themselves; bulimics binge and make
themselves sick, or take laxatives to get the food out of their body. And so
on. But the boundaries are pretty fluid. For example, lots of anorexics make
themselves sick occasionally.
I've never done it, though. I'm too scared. I can't stop picturing myself
ripping my throat open or choking to death on my own hand or something
else equally horrible. I'm not much of a binger, either. I've never gobbled a
whole pack of doughnuts or a family-size pizza. The furthest I'll go is
licking the knife after I've cut something, to get a few extra crumbs, and
then hating myself for it. I'm the most controlling, the most neurotic sort of
anorexic: the restrictor. Everything is about numbers, rules, routines. It's not
the kind of eating disorder you read about in the papers. It's boring.
Anorexia, slow and steady.
And then, before I know it, before I can think myself out of it, I'm
crouched down next to a tree, with my fingers down my throat. If I'm going
to be like this, I want to do it right. I want to be the textbook anorexic. The
one everyone wants me to be.
I gag and immediately remove my fingers. I'm too scared. I cough, spit,
slump down on the mud and leaf mulch. My throat stings, and I feel a hot
lump forming, like I'm about to cry.
You can't even do anorexia right. What kind of anorexic can't make
themselves sick?
I call her Ana. Her, it: the monster inside me. The voice inside my head.
Imaginative name, right?
It doesn't actually feel like someone else. It feels like me. They're my
thoughts, my feelings. But Lindsay says it's good to externalize the disease.
So, I'm doing my best. That's why I write my diary and address it to her: to
remind myself that my disease isn't me. I haven't told Lindsay about that,
though. It's too embarrassing. Like the kind of thing a kid would do.
At the moment, she's in my head 24/7. When I stand in a mirror and
turn to my side, she tells me,
Your belly sticks out.
When I'm about to eat a cereal bar, she says,
Better check the calories.
even though I've already checked them a hundred times. Even though I
could recite them in my sleep.
She asks questions all the time, too.
Do you really need to eat that?
Is Robin avoiding you?
Is that girl across the street staring at you?
I try to ignore her. But she never shuts up for long.
And right now, she's really mad at me.
I start to cry.
Don't be so pathetic. You're acting like a whiny little girl.
“Max? Are you there?”
Robin. Over the years, my brother has spent as much time in these
woods as I have. I haven't exactly chosen the greatest hiding place. I look
around. This bit of the woods is mostly birch: light and airy. Spread out.
Anorexics are good at avoiding people—but right now, I've got nowhere to
hide.
I stand up and walk toward my brother. Did he hear me retching? Will
he say anything if he did?
“Hey,” I say.
“Hey. You all right?”
I wipe my mouth with my sleeve. “I'm fine.”
“You scared us, you know.”
“I'm sorry.”
Robin shrugs, like he doesn't know whether to accept my apology or
not. “At least you gave me an excuse not to listen to Uncle Rich anymore.”
He grins. “Come on, I've got something to show you.”
I figured Robin would be on strict orders to bring me straight home, but
if he is, he ignores them. We walk deeper into the Common, then loop back
around toward home. We cross the peat bogs and end up at Deanwater: a
big, peanut-shaped artificial lake. As usual, it's teeming with ducks, geese,
coots, and moorhens. At the narrowest part, a heron stands on a stump and
surveys his terrain. I wish I had my new binoculars with me.
We sit down on a bench and look out across the water. There's a sour
taste in my mouth: I guess a bit of bile came up when I was retching. I
swallow. My throat feels raw.
Robin reaches into his pocket and pulls out a pack of chewing gum,
offers it to me. “It'll take the taste away.”
A bolt of ice shoots down my spine. So he did hear me.
“No thanks,” I mumble.
“It's sugar-free,” Robin says.
“I know,” I say. “It's not that.” I look down, embarrassed. We both
know it is not that. I'm suspicious of anything that has flavor—coffee, gum,
Diet Coke—even when I know, rationally, there are no calories in it.
“Suit yourself. Hey,” he says. He reaches into his coat again and pulls
out my wooden box. “Any guesses yet?” he says.
“Why did you …,” I begin, but I let myself trail off. You learn not to ask
why when you're talking to Robin. I still have no idea what the box is, so I
just shake my head.
“Feel under the bench,” he says. I must look confused, because he adds,
“Trust me.” That seems to be Robin's catchphrase today.
I don't really want to feel under the bench, because if school's anything
to go by, it'll be covered in old gum, or worse. But reluctantly, I do as my
brother says. I start in the middle, sliding my hands toward my end. It feels
like the underside of a bench: wooden slats covered in a powdery layer of
lichen and mold. Cold, wet metal. On the plus side, there's no chewing
gum.
Then, right before I get to the end, there's a bump: Something or other
juts out below the bench. I'm so surprised, I actually jump.
Robin smiles, like he was waiting for this reaction. “Take a look,” he
says.
I have to pretty much lie on the ground to see under the bench. In a
puddle. I'm plotting ways to pay Robin back when I realize what I'm
looking at: a box the same shape as mine, only a bit smaller, and made out
of black plastic.
“Robin,” I say. “Did you steal my present from a park bench?”
He laughs. “Pass it over here, then,” he says.
I pull the box off the bench. It comes away more easily than I thought it
would. I turn it over and look at the four little magnets in the corners.
“What is it?” I say, getting up and passing the box to Robin.
He looks at me, grinning like an idiot. “That's what I want you to tell
me.”
December 27
Dear Ana,
Congratulations, you ruined Christmas.
Okay, so I was expecting you to screw it up one way or
another. But you really outdid yourself. Now Auntie Jess and
Uncle Rich and Gran and James and Louise are all in on the
secret: Max is a psycho. And you know what the worst part
is? They were all super-nice about it afterward. I guess Mum
must have said something. Come to think of it, she
definitely said something, because Auntie Jess didn't offer
me any chocolates all afternoon, which has literally never
happened before.
It's a week until school starts again, and at this point,
I'm almost looking forward to it. If Ram and Stu actually
still want to talk to me, maybe it won't be so bad. At home,
you kind of hang over everything. Don't let this go to your
head Ana, but … even when we're not talking about you,
we're thinking about you. Mum and Dad tiptoe around me,
like at any moment, I'm going to tear them a new one.
But at school, it's totally different. Don't get me
wrong: I'm still pretty sure that, if you asked anyone,
they'd confirm that I was a 100 percent certified freak. But
most of the time, people don't even notice me. I'm invisible
—like the world's worst superhero. Max, The Disappearing
Man.
Hmm. I guess that works in more ways than one.
“So, did you
3
have a good Christmas?”
I see Lindsay once a fortnight, at the hospital. There's a separate
building for outpatient appointments, and the room we meet in feels more
like my mum's office than a doctor's surgery. I guess that's deliberate.
Some anorexics are weirdly proud of all the times they've been
hospitalized, all the drugs they've been given, all the psychologists they've
seen. In my experience, eating disorder forums are mostly full of people
boasting about how ill they are. So yeah: sending us to the most boring,
non-medical office building in the world makes total sense.
I'm sitting in a plastic chair that was probably made for a ten-year-old.
I'm sitting very upright, with my hands clasped together in my lap. I keep
swallowing, because I don't know what to say. The roof is made of those
gray-white tiles you get in offices, to hide all the cables. I count in one
direction, then another, and multiply to get a total.
Anorexia is definitely good for your mental math.
We sit in silence for what feels like ages. It's probably like a minute. My
sense of time is completely screwed.
“Max?” Lindsay says eventually.
I look at her. I'm not trying to be rude, but what does she want from
me? It was horrible. I ruined Christmas for my whole family.
“It was fine,” I say.
“Any good presents?”
For a moment, I consider telling her about Robin's present. But I don't
know what I would say. I still haven't figured out what it is myself yet. “I
got some new binoculars,” I tell her.
“Oh, brilliant!” She beams at me, like me getting a new pair of
binoculars has made her week. I can't help but smile. I think 75 percent of
Lindsay's treatment technique is just to smile at people until they feel better.
She kind of reminds me of Auntie Jess. “And how was the day itself?”
I gulp. “It was fine,” I say again.
“Are you sure?”
“It was …” I breathe in, out, close my eyes. I don't really want to talk
about it, but it's not like I have anything else to bring up. How do you
change the topic when your whole life revolves around one thing? “Dinner
didn't go as planned,” I say. I pull my feet up onto the chair and hug my
knees. I feel like a four-year-old.
“I'm sorry to hear that, Max. Tell me what happened.”
So I do. I figure I might as well do something to pass the time. I tell her
about the plan, and the roast potato, and the Christmas pudding. I tell her
how I stormed off. I leave out the part about trying to make myself sick.
Lindsay listens to me, making notes as I talk. She doesn't say anything
until at least thirty seconds after I've finished speaking. I think this is
something they teach you to do when you train to be a psychologist: wait
until the tap's run completely dry.
Eventually, she says that the plan was very smart, and that there will
always be setbacks. Which is exactly what I expected her to say. And it's
nice. Having a cheerleader is nice. But I don't see how it helps. I feel better
—but I know that it'll only last about thirty seconds.
She's getting fatter, I swear. Are you really going to take advice
from someone that weak?
That's another thing about Ana. She doesn't only try to bring you down:
She has a pop at everyone around you, too. And you end up feeling bad,
because her thoughts are your thoughts. You can't help it. It's all happening
inside your head.
Shut up, Ana.
I only started seeing Lindsay in October. She hasn't given me a diet plan
or anything yet. Apparently, she wants to observe me for a while first, to
figure out what will work best.
The only thing that's changed so far is the running. As in, me not being
allowed to. According to Lindsay, this isn't about calories—or at least, it
isn't just about calories. My bones are now so weak they might break, plus
there's a chance I'll have a seizure or a heart attack. It's amazing how many
different ways Ana tries to kill you at once.
We talk some more about how things are at home, and at school, though
because of the Christmas holidays, I've barely been to school since my last
appointment.
“You've been keeping your food diary up to date?” Lindsay asks me.
“Yes,” I reply.
As part of my treatment, Lindsay's asked me to keep a journal of
everything I eat. This is pretty easy, because I was already keeping one for
myself. When I gave her my first two weeks' records, with all of the
calories totals already added up, she was delighted.
She scans my food journal, nodding approvingly, as if it's healthy for a
fourteen-year-old boy to eat this little …
“Okay,” she says. “For the next two weeks, I'd like you to eat one Mars
bar a day, on top of your normal meals. Or a Snickers or something if you
prefer. As long as it's this size.” She reaches into her desk drawer and pulls
out a Mars bar. She obviously sees my look of terror because she adds,
“Just give it a try.”
She hands it to me. I take it from her like it's a nuclear bomb.
I can't believe she said it like that, as though asking me to eat a whole
extra chocolate bar every single day is nothing.
As soon as I leave the outpatient building, I take the Mars bar out of my
pocket and look at the nutritional information. I stare at it for a moment,
amazed there can be so many calories in something so small. It's like it's a
neutron star, or a black hole. A calorie TARDIS.
I find today's page in my journal, and write in:
2:00 p.m. Mars bar x 1
I throw the Mars bar in the bin. I hate wasting food, but I don't have
another option. Then I run toward the parking lot to meet Dad.
January 1
Dear Ana,
I finally figured out what it is.
Okay, I didn't. Robin told me. After I'd made about a
million stupid guesses—some kind of beehive, a binocular box,
a USB hard drive—Robin told me that my present is called a
geocache. Geo as in “earth,” cache as in “place where you hide
stuff.” He showed me how the lid slides off, and how there's
a logbook and pen inside. Most people use an app to find
them, but you can use any kind of GPS.
Apparently, there are thousands of geocaches, all over
the world, in parks and city centers and World Heritage
sites. Anyone can start one. Some of them are tiny, as small
as a penny. Some of them are ten times the size of mine.
When you look up a cache online, there are GPS
coordinates, and a name, and some kind of riddle that hints
at its exact location. Robin showed me the listing for the
one under the bench. The cache was called Lake View. The
description was, “This bench has a secret!” He said that it
was a pretty dumb one.
We left a message in the logbook together: “TFTC. Merry
Christmas!” TFTC means Thanks for the Cache. It's, like, the
default thing to write in people's logbooks, apparently. That
was yesterday. Today, I took Sultan out for a walk to find
one of the other two caches that are on the Common. This
one is by the entrance to the golf course, and the clue is
“Score a birdie.” It took me a while to find it: an empty
nest box on the side of the clubhouse with a little film pod
tucked inside. I made sure no one was looking, and took out
the film pod. Inside was a pencil stub and a neat little scroll
of paper. I unrolled the paper. There were dozens of
messages, dating back to 2016. I found the last one—from
four days ago—and wrote, “01/01/18 TFTC. Happy New Year!
Canorus04,” below it. Canorus04 is my username. Canorus is
the species name of the common cuckoo, which is my
favorite bird.
According to Robin, part of the fun of geocaching is
that you have no idea who looks after each one, or who else
is searching for them. He said, “You feel like a spy.” So now,
Ana, I'm not just invisible: I'm an invisible spy. If I could get
rid of you, I could actually have some fun with all these
superpowers.
It's the first
4
day back at school, and I'm standing in the playground,
trying to explain to Ram why I don't want to trade half of his cheese
sandwich for half of my ham sandwich.
“But it's ham,” he pleads.
Ram is actually called Ehtiram, but no one calls him that except his
mum. His parents are divorced, and he lives with his mum, who doesn't let
him eat pork. But his dad gives him bacon for breakfast every other
weekend. The rest of the time, he's on the lookout for extra pork products to
supplement his diet. I used to be his go-to.
“Sorry,” I tell him. And I am sorry. I don't want to be a weirdo. I want
to switch sandwiches with my best friend, if that's what he's into. I don't
want it to be a big deal.
“It's the same size,” Ram says. Then he adds, “You stingy bastard.”
Stuart, our other best friend, snorts.
“I know,” I say to Ram.
“Fine,” he says, in a voice that makes it seem very not-fine. He tears the
corner off one half-sandwich. “I'll give you extra.”
“It's not about that …,” I start to say.
“Do you want me to starve? Is that it?” asks Ram.
I flinch at that word: starve.
“No, Ram, I don't want you to starve,” I tell him.
“She's looking at us,” Stu says. We both give him funny looks, like,
What are you on about? He nods beyond us. We turn and look.
It's the new girl, the one who just joined this term. Evie or Evvy or
something like that. People hardly ever join our school partway through the
year. It only happens when something big has happened—like with Shinji,
who came last spring after the earthquake in Kobe. I wonder what happened
to Evie. Or Evvy.
She's standing across the yard, staring at us, like she doesn't give two
hoots if we notice. I guess she doesn't really have anyone to hang out with
yet. But even so: why would anyone pick us?
“What was her name again?” I ask.
“Elvis,” says Stu confidently. “I think.”
“Ignore her,” says Ram, with a wave of his hand, like he's swatting
away a fly. He's given up on bartering with me and is now munching his
cheese sandwich. He doesn't look like he's enjoying it very much. “She's
weird. Hey, have you guys got to the bit where—”
The second he starts speaking, Stu raises a hand to silence him. “No
spoilers. My nan was at our house all Christmas, so I've barely had any
time to play yet.”
Zelda. We all got it for Christmas. Every time we get a new game, Ram
is desperate to talk about it, and Stu is desperate not to.
“You're no fun,” Ram mutters. He turns to me, catches me looking at
Evie/Evvy/Elvis, and sighs. “Oh, for God's sake. See you later, losers.” He
slings his rucksack onto his shoulder and stomps off toward the music
building.
After lunch it's PE, aka the worst two hours of my week, unless we're
doing cross-country, which is the only sport I'm not terrible at. (Cross-
country is technically running, but Lindsay doesn't mind me doing it, as
long as I'm with other people who'll take me to the hospital if I trip over
and break a leg or whatever.) Unfortunately, we only do cross-country when
the fields are too wet to use, and today, it's clear and dry. And bloody
freezing.
I hate getting changed. Our changing room is basically a corridor with a
bench on either side. People run up and down the middle, flicking one
another with towels, and shouting, Get your willy out! repeatedly, and
sometimes going up behind people and pulling their boxers down. It's also
freezing, even when it's not that cold outside. One of the side effects of
being anorexic is that you're cold all the time. Stripping down to your
boxers in an unheated, concrete-floored PE building in January doesn't help
with that particular problem.
Stu's in the same class as me. While I try to put my PE kit on under my
clothes, he tells me about his Christmas.
“It was rubbish. My nan wanted to play Scrabble in the morning, and
then we went for a walk. I didn't get to open my presents till three p.m.”
“What did you get?” I ask, sliding my jersey under my shirt.
“A Raspberry Pi. Zelda. FIFA. That new Stephen King book I wanted.”
He sits down on the bench and shrugs philosophically. He's not even started
getting changed. “Not a bad haul.”
Stu's a certified geek but gets a pass because he also happens to be
really good at football. He's a striker for the school and the county. Last
year, he had a Discworld-themed birthday party, and pretty much the whole
football team dressed up as wizards and elves. It was hilarious.
It gets darker all of a sudden, and we hear a booming voice from the end
of the corridor: “Mr. Swindells, will you be joining us on the field today?” I
look up. Mr. Stott is silhouetted in the doorway, blotting out the sun like a
supervillain.
Mr. Stott is like a cross between a beer barrel and a military general. He
cares about two things—football and rugby—and anyone who doesn't share
at least one of these interests is in big trouble.
Luckily, Stu does. “Yes, sir,” he mumbles meekly, pulling his shirt and
sweater off in one go.
“Anyone who isn't outside in two minutes gets detention,” Mr. Stott
says. He turns and marches out. Step, two, three, four.
I've got my jersey on. All I need to do now is take off my trousers and
put on my shorts. I take a deep breath, but before I can start, Darren taps me
on the shoulder.
“Gonna show us your dick, Max?” he asks, laughing as if this were the
funniest thing anyone has ever said in the history of humanity. Darren bugs
me and not because he's a bully. He's thin. Like, crazy thin. He's one of
those kids who eats pies continuously and somehow still looks like a rake.
He's also the only person in my year faster than me at cross-country.
When he asks if I'm going to show him my dick, I'm supposed to turn
around, so someone—probably—can come up behind me and pull my
boxers down. Instead, I carefully sit down on the bench before replying.
“I'm all right, Darren,” I say. “Cheers, though.”
“Knob,” Darren says, with an irritated sniff. He stomps off.
When most of the group have gone outside, I whip my trousers off and
put my shorts on as fast as I can. Okay, so no one wants their whole class to
see their junk, I don't want it on a whole different level. Anorexia slows
down puberty. Your pubic hair stops growing, and everything sort of …
pauses. I don't know if it'll happen to me, but I'm scared. I stand in the
mirror sometimes and look at my dick and balls. They look small. But
everyone thinks that, right? I don't exactly have anything to compare them
with.
My dick is probably the only bit of my anatomy that I want to be bigger.
Stu and I are the last ones to leave the changing rooms. He elbows me
as we walk outside. “Nicely played with Darren, mate.”
I grin. “Thanks.”
We're playing rugby today. I mean, everyone else is. As well as
running, Lindsay has decided contact sports are probably a bad idea for
someone whose bones are like twigs. So my parents wrote to the school,
asking if I could be excused from tackling—which, if you've never played
rugby, is kind of a major part of the game. I'm allowed to do the drills and
warm-ups, but that's it. It's like they're trying to make me look like the
biggest freak possible.
This happened right before Christmas. Today's the first time it's come
up. So far, Mr. Stott hasn't said anything. Maybe no one told him, or maybe
he forgot. I'm certainly not going to mention it. Oh, by the way, Mr. Stott,
not sure if anyone told you, but due to my being a massive freak, I can't play
rugby anymore. Sorry. Here, look. I've got a note.
On balance, I'd rather risk breaking all my bones.
We start with a warm-up jog, which is fine. Then we do a passing drill.
Everyone runs down the field in a line, passing the ball and then running
around to the other side. I'm so nervous, I drop the ball literally every time
someone passes it to me. On my last go, I catch it, but then forget to pass it
on, and run around the back with the ball in hand. The other boys in my
group are almost in tears. “Nice job, idiot,” Shinji says when we reach the
end of the field.
“Sorry,” I mumble.
“You're apologizing for me insulting you?” he says.
I don't say anything.
Shinji spits on the ground. “Pathetic.”
Shinji is Darren's best friend. He's pretty much the opposite of Darren
physically: He's sort of like a younger, more muscular version of Mr. Stott.
His legs are the size of tree trunks. In Stu's opinion, Shinji's not actually
any good at rugby, but he's so strong he makes the first team anyway.
After the drill, Mr. Stott calls us over to work out teams for the game.
One thing I like about him is that he doesn't let people pick their own
teams. Instead, he divides everyone up himself, so people like me don't
have to go through the humiliation of being picked last, week after week.
We head slowly toward him, chatting and joking and messing around,
until he booms, “Hurry up!” at which point we run. When we arrive, he
looks at us and shakes his head. “That took far too long. Everyone sprint to
the posts and back. Except you, Mr. Howarth.”
I gulp.
The rest of my class run off down the rest of the field while I shuffle
toward Mr. Stott like a shy zombie. I can already feel my hands getting
clammy.
He looks me up and down. “No contact, is that right?”
I look down at the grass. “Yes, sir.”
I'm expecting him to call me a sissy or something. Or maybe he'll just
plain refuse my parent's request and give me a speech about how I've got to
toughen up.
But instead, he puts a hand on my shoulder. “Everything all right?”
“Uh … yes, sir. Thank you.”
“You happy to run while we play? You'll freeze to death otherwise.”
I look at him in disbelief. This is a bit like someone asking a pig
whether, instead of being made into sausages, they'd like to play in mud for
a while. “Yes, sir.”
“Off you go, then. Stick to the normal crosscountry route.”
I guess Mr. Stott didn't get the memo about me running on my own. I'm
not going to correct him.
I spend the rest of the lesson running. I do three loops of the whole
school: along the little stream at the far edge of the fields, around the music
building, through the woods where we do pond dipping for biology
sometimes. It's the best PE lesson I've had in months.
Stu comes over to me as we go back inside. “What was that all about?
Stott told us you're on some special training program.”
“He did?”
“Yeah. He made it sound like you're running for the county or
something.”
I shrug. “Who can say?”
Maybe Mr. Stott isn't so bad after all.
January 7
Dear Ana,
I have about a million questions floating around in my head.
But the biggest one is, why?
Why me? Why now? Why not last year or next year?
If you break your leg, it's because you fell off your bike.
If you get pneumonia, it's because you inhaled some
pneumococcal bacteria. But figuring out why you decided to
climb into my head isn't so easy.
Maybe it doesn't matter. You're here. It's happened.
Some angry god grabbed a bolt of lightning and tossed it to
earth, and it happened to hit me.
But that can't be right, can it? There's got to be a
reason. And I really, really, really want to know what it is.
Near our house there's this big National Trust property
called Ashford Park. We used to go every year or two when
me and Robin were younger. In front of the main house,
there's this giant hedge maze, which is pretty much the
main reason anyone goes. The first time I went in on my
own—I must have been, like, seven—it took me as long to
get back out as it did to get to the center, because I didn't
memorize the route as I went. But the next year, I'd figured
out it was probably a good idea to think about what I was
doing, so I could retrace my steps.
If you know how you got somewhere, you know how to
get out, right? Why should anorexia be any different?
The only problem? I have NO IDEA how I got here. I don't
have a single clue how you managed to climb into my head.
Which means I'm totally lost.
Mum comes home
5
super-pissed. She's spitting feathers again is
how Dad puts it, once Mum's out of earshot. Apparently, the other partners
have scheduled a get-together for the night of the school management
committee meeting without telling her. This kind of stuff happens a lot.
Mum's the only female partner at her firm, and a lot of them like to make
her life difficult. Dad pours her a very large glass of wine.
Dad's cooking dinner tonight. During the week, he does most of the
cooking because he always gets home hours before Mum does. We're
having chicken Kiev, boiled potatoes—which I'll skip—and peas. It may
not sound like an anorexic's ideal meal, but from a counting perspective,
it's easy.
I love things that come in a box with calorie numbers on the back.
In the meantime, I do my chemistry homework. And because the
universe hates me, it's all about calories. A calorie (symbol: cal) is the
energy required to raise the temperature of 1 g of water by 1°C at a
pressure of 1 atmosphere, my textbook tells me. A kilocalorie (symbol: kcal
or Cal), also known as a food calorie, is the energy required to raise the
temperature of 1kg of water by 1°C at a pressure of 1 atmosphere. When
people talk about the number of “calories” in food, they're almost always
talking about kilocalories.
I already know this bit. When I first learned what a (food) calorie was, it
blew my mind. Anything that can be divided by a thousand must be pretty
big, right? I started getting annoyed by the missing kilo whenever people
talked about calories on TV. Like they were lying to me, trying to make me
fat.
But there's something else that's bugging me. I go into the kitchen to
find Dad.
“How was your day?” Dad says, before I can say anything. He's
standing over the stove, fiddling with the heat on the potatoes.
“Okay.”
He turns around and looks hard at me. My parents give me a lot of these
kinds of looks now. I'm-asking-a-serious-question-and-I-want-you-to-takeit-seriously looks. “PE is going okay?”
“Yeah,” I say. I don't say, PE is now the best part of my week because I
get to go running on my own.
“Good. Do you want to weigh the peas?”
“It's okay,” I say. “I'll weigh mine after they're cooked.”
“Fair enough,” he says.
“Dad, are the—”
“Oh, bugger,” Dad says, swiveling back to the stove. The potatoes are
boiling over, there's a shallow pool of starchy water around the burners.
Dad picks up the pan, pours a little water out in the sink, and turns the heat
down. “That's better,” he says. “Don't cry over spilt milk and all that. You
got homework to do?”
“Yep,” I say. “I've got a question.”
My dad never gets upset about anything. (Well except, like, recycling.)
I'd say he was pretty relaxed about the potatoes, but he would've been the
same even if the water had spilled over his shoes, too. Or if I told him I
wasn't doing homework anymore and was giving up school to join the
circus.
“Shoot,” he says, pointing at me with what can only be described as
finger guns.
I cringe. “Um, anyway … Calories measure the energy it takes to heat
up water, right?”
“So I'm told,” he says, going over to the freezer to look for peas.
“Though before we go any further, I'd like to point out that I last studied
chemistry when John Major was prime minister.”
“Yeah. But you know everything,” I tell him. “Does that mean, if you
heat up a meal, it's more calorific?”
Dad opens the freezer, fishes around for the peas. He pulls them out,
turns to me, and frowns. “Humans can't absorb heat energy, Max.”
“No, but we're endotherms, right? We use energy heating up our
bodies.”
He raises one eyebrow. “I suppose that's true.”
“So if I eat something hot, I have to use less energy keeping myself
warm.”
“Maybe, but it's a tiny amount of energy.”
“Is it?”
“Well, let's see.” One of the things I like about my dad is that he doesn't
treat me like a kid. We can have normal, adult conversations. He puts the
peas down on the side and picks up his mug. “Say you have a cup of tea,
two hundred fifty milliliters, give or take. It's, what, eighty degrees Celsius
when you drink it? That's sixty above room temperature. So you've added
sixty times two hundred fifty calories. What does that work out as?”
I think for a minute. “Fifteen thousand.”
“And that's calories. So fifteen kilocalories.”
At least Dad appreciates the difference. “Yes,” I say.
“That's assuming you drink it all in one go, when it's at eighty degrees.
I reckon ten calories is probably more realistic.”
“Probably,” I agree.
“That's less than one percent of your daily calories. And the body
generates lots of excess heat anyway. I doubt it makes any measurable
difference at all, come to think of it.”
“Okay.”
Dad puts a hand on my shoulder. The hand of doubt. “Max, this isn't
going to become a thing, is it?”
I flinch slightly. I try not to, but I can't help it. “No,” I tell him.
He nods slowly. “Glad to hear it.” He doesn't exactly look convinced.
I can't stop thinking about it. Not the tea bit, because I don't really drink
tea anyway. Not even the hot food bit, because I figure, like Dad says,
unless you're outside on a freezing day, it probably doesn't make much
difference. But say you drank a liter of ice-cold water when you were
already cold. Your body would have to work extra hard to heat you back up,
wouldn't it? You could cheat yourself into burning calories faster.
Robin steps through the door just as Dad is dishing out. Good timing.
As soon as we sit down, he starts telling us about his day. Robin's now eight
months into his apprenticeship, and he's starting to learn what he calls the
good stuff. Today, apparently, was all about the different types of dovetail
joints.
“I'm not sure I knew there were different types of dovetail joints,” says
Dad.
I'm thinking, I'm not sure I care.
“Oh yeah,” says Robin, “There are loads.” He leaps up, goes over to the
sideboard, and picks up a pencil and paper. “You've got your basic dovetail,
like this”—he starts sketching—“which you'd use for an ordinary drawer.
But if you don't want people to see the end grain, you can do this …”
I look across at Mum. She seems really quiet tonight. Like, more so
than normal. Maybe she's still cross about the meeting, but she normally
gets over stuff like that pretty quickly. After all, she's kind of used to it.
This feels different. Right now, she's staring into space, and occasionally
eating a forkful of something. Okay, so I'm not exactly in a position to
criticize other people's eating habits. But it's like she doesn't even care. I
can't even get my head around anyone not caring about the food in front of
them.
After sketching five different types of dovetail joints, Robin puts down
his pencil, satisfied, and resumes shoveling food into his mouth. “How was
your day, anyway?” he says to Dad, through a mouthful of boiled potatoes.
“I was scouting sites for the new recycling center,” Dad says. “It was a
barrel of laughs, as always.”
Dad has been scouting sites for the new recycling center for three years.
About a year ago, he thought he'd found the perfect place, out near the
bypass. But the rich families who live in Woodgrove Park—half a mile
away—kicked up a fuss.
“That other site was perfect,” says Robin. “Great access, isolated, no
environmental issues. Those posh idiots.”
“Robin,” Dad says in a warning tone. “I wouldn't want it near my
house, either. It's easy to criticize.”
As well as never ever getting cross, Dad is annoyingly reasonable. In
my experience, most people are hypocrites about at least one thing. For
example, Robin lectures us all about forest conservation, but also eats beef,
which is the biggest cause of deforestation worldwide. Stu freaks out about
spoilers but will happily tell us the plot of a book he's read without asking.
But Dad isn't like that. Even if you do catch him doing something
hypocritical, he won't get defensive about it. He'll say, “Good point,” and
change his behavior. Once, when I was eleven and a total smartass, I told
him that it wasn't fair for him to get at us for leaving lights on as he always
leaves his phone charger plugged in. He's turned it off at the wall ever
since.
You may think this is a good quality in a dad, but I disagree. It's like
living with a monk or the pope or Barack Obama. There's nothing you can
really complain about, and you just end up feeling guilty the whole time.
“Max, have you sorted your you-know-what yet?” Robin asks me.
I shake my head. “No. But I've decided where it's going. I'm going to
put it up on Saturday.”
“What's all this?” Dad cocks an eyebrow.
“Nothing you need to worry about,” says Robin.
“Fair enough,” Dad says.
See? He takes whatever you say at face value. I'm sure parents aren't
supposed to be like that.
“Right, who wants dessert?”
Robin nods. I shake my head. And Mum doesn't even respond.
January 10
Dear Ana,
According to, like, every single website I've looked at, I
shouldn't even call myself an “anorexic.” Instead, I'm
supposed to say that I'm a “person with anorexia,” because
I'm still a person. Having you inside my head doesn't stop me
from being me.
I guess I agree with that—but the whole argument
seems kind of dumb to me. If I call Dad a county council
worker, I'm not saying he's not also my dad and a man and a
member of Bolford Choir. My opinion is, right now, I kind of
have bigger fish to fry. So to speak.
Plus, even if I wanted to stop thinking about myself as
an anorexic, I'm not sure you'd let me, would you?
“No one wants to hang out with an anorexic.”
“Proper anorexics can make themselves sick, you know.”
“Who cares what some sad little anorexic thinks?”
When I've got you in my ear 24/7 saying stuff like that,
I don't exactly have much choice.
I finally chose a spot for my cache. I'm actually pretty
proud of it. According to Robin, a good cache is one that's
“hidden in plain sight.” It's not much fun if your cache is in
some random place, like in one of a hundred identical fence
posts, or if people have to wade through a tunnel to get to
it.
So, want to guess where I'm putting mine?
There's this massive oak tree on the west side of the
Common. It's amazing. Dad told me once that he reckons it's
over 250 years old. It's got these huge branches that spread
out in every direction, kind of like if you peel string cheese
right down to the bottom. Some of them are only a few
inches off the ground, which means it's pretty awesome for
climbing, and I reckon it would be a pretty awesome place to
hide a cache, too. If you climb up three branches, there's
this little hollow in the trunk from where they cut off a
branch or something and you can't see it from the ground.
Perfect, right?
I tried to put it there today, but it didn't go well. I had
Sultan with me, and when you have Sultan with you, people
always want to stop and talk. This woman who works with
Dad basically gave my goofy mutt a full body massage while I
just stood there, answering her dumb questions.
“How's school?”
“It's fine.”
“Oh, you like that, don't you, Sultan? Yes, you do!”
By the time she finished, it was too dark to go into the
woods.
But it's okay: I can do it tomorrow instead. It turns
out, when you don't hang out with anyone—or, you know,
eat—you end up with a lot of spare time.
I'm bored out
6
of my mind.
Generally, I really like biology, even if the human bits make me, um,
faint. Sometimes. Occasionally. (Apparently, being an anorexic isn't
enough: Max Howarth has a whole separate, extra way to make himself a
social outcast. Whenever someone starts talking about anatomy or disease
or bodily functions, all my blood goes to my feet, and I collapse. Trust me,
it makes me seem super-cool.) But I like nonhuman biology. I want to do a
zoology degree, then become an ornithologist.
I just have to, you know, make sure I survive that long.
Today is a review class, which is easily the most annoying thing ever.
For example, Mr. Edwards, our teacher, has just told Gopal that his answer
to a question about enzymes wasn't right, because he said they get
deformed at high temperatures, not denatured. His exact words were,
“That's correct, but you need to say it differently to get the marks.”
That's why I'm bored out of my mind.
I'm doodling in my notebook, but I don't even realize I'm doodling
until Ram leans over and says, “Hey, that's pretty good.”
I instinctively cover the page, like he caught me looking at porn or
something, and scowl at Ram. He looks surprised, which I guess isn't
surprising. It's not like he was actually doing anything unreasonable. My
face drops, and my cheeks start to burn.
I move my hand to inspect my drawing. It's the oak tree on the
Common. Swirls of ballpoint twist out from the trunk. Now that I look at it,
it's kind of creepy, like a tree in a horror movie.
I want to say sorry to Ram but I don't know how, so I carry on doodling.
I start filling in the hollow halfway up the trunk. I scribble over and over,
until the page is saturated with ink and starts to tear. It's kind of therapeutic.
I still haven't come up with a good clue, and it's starting to bug me.
“Sorry,” Ram murmurs.
Wait a second. He's apologizing to me because I lost my temper with
him over nothing? It makes me feel about ten times worse than I already
did.
Mr. Edwards is talking about evolution now. “Lamarck's theory was
popular for a long time,” he says. “What's the key problem with his version
of evolution?”
I've got some salt-and-vinegar chips in my bag that I was supposed to
have for lunch. I was actually going to eat them today. Maybe. But I decide
I should give them to Ram to say sorry. I pull them out, keeping them
hidden under the bench so Mr. Edwards can't see. “Here,” I whisper.
“Present.”
Ram looks at me like I'm offering him a Porsche. He stares at my hand.
“Take them,” I hiss. “Before …” I nod toward Mr. Edwards.
“Are you sure?” Ram says.
“Max, is everything okay over there?”
I freeze, like a chicken who's been spotted by a T. rex. Mr. Edwards
sidles toward us.
“Everything's fine, sir,” I mumble.
“Good, good. I'd ask you to share those around, but we all know it's
dangerous to eat in the laboratory.”
“Yes, sir,” I say. I'm thinking, He must have bat ears. (Fun fact: Bats
can change the shape of their ears to hear better. Sort of like having a builtin ear trumpet.)
“So instead, I'll look after them until the end of class,” Mr. Edwards
continues. He holds out his hand. I give him the chips. “Thank you. Now,
can you explain to everyone how a kidney nephron works?”
I swallow. “Um … the blood gets pumped into the Bowman's capsule,
which forces everything out of it.”
“Good.” Mr. Edwards nods, in that way teachers do when they're
slightly annoyed that you've given them the right answer, because they
know you weren't listening properly. “Then what?”
“Then the liquid travels along the convoluted tubule. And anything we
need is absorbed back into the blood at the loop of Henle.”
Ram gives me a look, like, How do you know all this stuff? Trust an
anorexic to know everything there is to know about the human body. Even
if that knowledge makes him faint sometimes. Right now, for instance, I'm
pretty nervous because everyone's looking at me, and my body's gone into
a fight-or-flight response. My sympathetic nervous system is going
haywire, the pituitary gland, at the base of my brain, is pumping out a
hormone called ACTH, and my adrenal glands are releasing cortisol and
epinephrine. These things are working together to speed up my heart,
release sugar into my blood, increase the blood flow to my muscles. There's
a hollowed-out feeling in my stomach, because all the blood's been diverted
elsewhere.
Of course, if Mr. Edwards makes me go into any more detail, things will
change. Fast. My vagus nerve will dilate my blood vessels and slow down
my heart until there isn't enough oxygen going to my brain. Then, BAM!
I'll black out and fall over: my body's way of getting blood back into my
head. Fainting may be super-annoying, but it's pretty clever. Well done,
evolution.
“And what is that process called?” Mr. Edwards asks.
“Um …”
I know the bad stuff, too. The stuff that keeps me awake at night, about
how anorexia is slowly ruining my body. I don't eat enough meat, which
means I'm short on iron. That's why I sometimes can't breathe properly. I
have to wear gloves at this time of year, even on warm days, because my
circulation is so rubbish. And I'm not going to grow a beard anytime soon
—unlike Ram, whose chin is already fuzzy—because of the whole pubertyslowing-down shebang.
But the thing that scares me most? My kidneys. My kidneys don't work
quite as well as the ones in our textbook, the ones I'm currently telling the
whole class about. My ion balance is screwed up, so they get a little more
damaged every day. According to Dr. Singh, they're okay for now, but
kidney failure kills hundreds of anorexics every year.
The thing is, knowing stuff only helps if you can do something with that
knowledge. Otherwise it just sits there, like some kind of mental bowling
ball you have to carry with you everywhere you go. Making you feel like
fainting and throwing up and crying, all at the same time.
Sometimes, I feel like I know too much. About calories. About kidneys.
About all kinds of stuff. I need, like, a lobotomy or something, so I can
carry on living my life, without all these thoughts getting in the way.
“Selective reabsorption,” I say eventually, trying not to think about what
the words mean.
“Correct,” Mr. Edwards says. “All of you, please make sure you use that
phrase. Selective reabsorption. And what's the main thing that's reabsorbed
in the loop of Henle, Max?”
My head's starting to go fuzzy. The edges of my vision go dark, like
someone's applied a photo filter directly to my eyes. I just want it to be
over. But this time, I don't know the answer. “Sugar?”
I'm pretty sure I see Mr. Edwards smirk, like, Finally, I caught you out.
“Actually, glucose is almost all reabsorbed in the proximal convoluted
tubule.”
“Yeah, idiot,” whispers someone across the room. I think it's Darren,
but I'm not sure. I hear a few stifled giggles.
“Thank you,” says Mr. Edwards, in a warning voice.
“Oh. Ions?” I say.
Mr. Edwards smiles. “Yes, ions. And with them goes …”
“Water.”
“Exactly. Thank you, Max.” He turns and loops toward the back of the
class, raising his voice. “Water is sixty percent of your body weight, folks.
The renal medulla is hypertonic to the fluid in the nephron. Who can tell me
what that means, and why it's important?”
He walks on, looking for someone else to pick on. I can't believe I made
it through that without fainting.
I try to tune him out, now I don't have to listen. But something he said
sticks in my mind. Sixty percent of your body weight is water. Sixty percent
of me is water: ordinary, comes-out-of-the-tap water. I mean, I guess it
makes sense. Cells are basically tiny water balloons, and we're made up of
thirty-five trillion of them. So are other animals. So are plants. If you are a
plant, you survive on water, sunlight, and air, and basically nothing else. It
sounds a lot easier—like an even-better version of Gran's nursing home.
But 60 percent seems nuts.
I feel a tug on my sleeve.
Sorry, Ram mouths to me.
I shake my head: Don't worry about it. He looks relieved. Jesus, I think.
Are my friends scared of me too now? Did he think I was going to flip out
at him?
I take another look at the doodle in front of me. The hollow sort of
looks like a mouth. I don't have a better idea, so I write underneath it, in
block capitals: THE MOUTH IN THE SKY. Then below that: How does a
tree eat?
Okay, so it's not the greatest riddle ever. But it's something. I'll put the
cache online this weekend; all I have to do is add the info and hit the button.
There's this weird twisted feeling in my stomach, and suddenly I clock what
it is: I'm nervous. Maybe it's just leftover nerves from being quizzed in
front of the whole class. Maybe it's a kind of oh-god-I'm-going-to-faint
hangover. But it feels different.
January 18
Dear Ana,
Waiting for stuff sucks. I put my cache online five days ago,
and so far, no one's visited. I've been to check it like eight
times already. I keep imagining something
's gone wrong, like
maybe a muggle—that's what you call someone who doesn't
know what geocaching is—has found it, and decided it must
be a bomb or a drug stash or something, and reported it to
the police. Or a squirrel's knocked it out of the tree.
But each time I go back, it's still there.
I asked Robin about it. He shrugged and told me
sometimes it takes a while to show up in everyone's app, and
also, it's not like there are that many people in Bolford out
searching for geocaches in the middle of January. “It was 20C
yesterday Max, for crying out loud,” he said. I guess he has a
point.
Hey, at least when I'm worrying about my geocache, I'm
not worrying about food. I've finally found a way to shut
you up.
Talking about weird girls who won't leave me alone … I
swear Evie (yes, I finally found out what her name is) is
crazy. Yesterday me, Stu, and Ram were on our way to
music, and she ran up behind us and was like, “Hey, guys!
Time for music!” To be absolutely clear: This is the first
time she's ever spoken to us. None of us had a clue what to
say. Eventually, Stu asked her if she played any instruments,
which I reckon was pretty nice of him. She said no. That was
it. We let her walk to class with us, but she didn't say
anything else. And she went and sat on her own. Now that I
think about it, I feel kind of bad we didn't ask her to sit
with us. But there's not exactly a lot I can do about it now.
At Deanwater High,
7
there's a zero-tolerance approach to mobile
phones. If a teacher sees you using one or even just holding one, they
confiscate it and you have to go to the assistant principal at the end of the
day to get it back. No excuses. If it happens twice, they keep it for a week.
Every parent has to sign an agreement saying they're fine with this policy
before their kid gets a place at the school. It's a big deal: Our principal does
interviews with national newspapers where she talks about the menace of
distraction. She's kind of a phone-hating celebrity.
Anyway, the main outcome is that every toilet cubicle in school is
occupied throughout break time and lunchtime because everyone goes in
there to check their phones. Like, it would be a real problem if you actually
needed to use a sit-down toilet. I don't know what the girls do.
Who knew that trying to stop 1,200 11–16 year-olds from using their
phones wouldn't work?
I sprint out of history as soon as the bell goes and reach the nearest
toilets before anyone else (which is a pretty big achievement, actually—
there are at least five classrooms that are closer). I close the door, pull out
my phone, and open up the listing for my cache.
And guess what? Nothing. Nada. Zilch.
I do have a text from Ram, though.
Where did you zoom off to? LOL. Meet us in the usual place. I need
your help!
I've met Ram and Stu in the usual place for three years, since we first
came to Deanwater High, so I'm not exactly sure what else he was
expecting me to do.
When I get there, he beams. “Max! So glad you could make it.”
I turn to Stu. “Why's he being weird?”
Stu frowns. “No idea. It's making me pretty nervous actually.”
Ram shakes his head. “Fellas, there's no need to be nervous. I want to
pick your brains.”
“About what?” Stu asks.
“My birthday, of course.”
I look at Stu. He raises an eyebrow.
“Your birthday's in May,” I tell him.
“Exactly,” he says enthusiastically. “We have plenty of time to figure it
out.”
“Figure what out?”
“My dad says I can do whatever I want this year. It's going to be, like,
the biggest social event of the year. So, what do we want to do? Oh, you're
both invited by the way.”
“This would've been a pretty awkward conversation if we weren't,
frankly,” says Stu.
Ram ignores him. “So, what do you reckon?”
I'm about to suggest he has his party at the zoo because that's definitely
where I'd have a birthday party, if I ever actually had one: My birthday's in
August, so no one's ever around.
But before I can say anything, Ram's off again. I think he's already
forgotten that he asked a question. “At first, I thought Laser Quest, but then
I thought, maybe we're too old for Laser Quest.”
Stu strokes his chin. “Is anyone ever truly too old for Laser Quest?”
“We might be,” says Ram, deadpan. “Keep up, Stu.”
Stu gives me another look.
“How about the zoo?” I say.
Ram snorts at this, which I guess means no.
“Bowling?” Stu offers.
Ram scowls. “Everyone goes bowling, Stu. I've been bowling like
twenty times in the last year.”
“It's almost as if bowling is fun,” mutters Stu.
I haven't, I think. I can't remember the last time I went bowling. I can't
tell if Ram's exaggerating, or if there are all these parties I don't get invited
to. Parties I don't even know about.
Probably. Who'd want you at a party?
Yeah, okay, Ana. You may have a point there.
The bell goes for third period, which today is PSHE—Personal, Social,
Health, and Economic education—aka the lesson where we all have to
pretend we've never heard of condoms.
“You two are about as useless as an inflatable dartboard,” Ram
concludes.
“Glad to help,” says Stu brightly.
“Anyway, keep thinking about it. I want to brief Dad at the weekend.”
“Brief?” Stu says. “You're not a spy, Ram.”
“That's exactly what a spy would want you to think,” Ram says,
touching his index finger to his head, like, Think about that for a moment.
Then he groans. “Oh, look who's back.”
You guessed it.
“Um, hi,” Evie says. “So, what's PSHE?”
“Personal, Social, Health, and Economic education,” we all chant in
unison, like the world's worst barbershop quartet. Barbershop trio, I guess.
“O-kay,” Evie says, like we're insane. She wrinkles her nose. “And
what the hell is that?”
“Basically, they tell us stuff we already know about how sex works. The
videos are good, though.”
Evie grins. “Cool.”
She is kind of pretty. Her hair is chocolate-brown, and her bangs hang
right down over her eyes. It must be kind of annoying, but it looks cool.
And she has about 18,000 freckles on each cheek.
There's an awkward pause where no one really knows what to do. Then
Ram picks up his rucksack and blurts, “See you there.”
I see a little flicker in Evie's face.
“You can come with us if you want,” I say. I don't actually look at her
when I say it. I just stare at my feet.
She frowns at me. “As if. See you later, dickheads.” Then she marches
off across the courtyard.
Robin's already there when I get home from school. He's normally at work
till six, but apparently some delivery got rescheduled or something, so he
could clock off early.
“I'm taking Sultan out,” he announces as soon as I walk through the
door. “Wanna come?”
“Yep. Just … give me a sec,” I say. I stumble into the kitchen.
Um, confession time: I didn't eat lunch. Our PSHE class ran over
because they had this guest speaker, who was a nurse from a sexual health
clinic in Manchester, and he got stuck in traffic. By the time I got out, there
were massive queues to even get into the toilets, and I really wanted to
check my phone. Maybe if I was less of a wimp, I'd subtly check my phone
wherever I was. But I'm not. And anyway, I kind of like having an excuse
to be on my own.
Unsurprisingly, no one had visited in the two hours since I'd last
checked.
By the time I got out, there was only, like, five minutes of lunch left. So
I skipped it.
Now I'm feeling pretty woozy. My arms are actual custard, and my
stomach feels like it's being vacuumed from the inside. I should eat
something—but the thought of eating now scares me. I feel like I could eat
twenty cheeseburgers. What if I start eating and can't stop myself?
Better not risk it. The hunger will go away soon. You're not that
weak, are you?
One thing you learn when you're anorexic is that hunger doesn't go in
one direction. It peaks and it dips; you can be ravenous one moment and
then, an hour later, you barely feel like eating.
And if you ride the wave, you can get away with eating less.
I go into the kitchen and open the fridge. For a second, I'm tempted by
the carton of orange juice, but instead, I grab the jug of chilled water and
fill up a pint glass. I down it in one gulp. I fill it back up and down it again.
“Max?” Robin calls from the hallway.
“Ready!” I shout back.
I'm super-bloated. I know water doesn't make me put on weight, but I
still feel disgusting.
You are disgusting.
I'm not hungry anymore, though. That's something.
“So, have you found somewhere for your cache yet?”
It's too dark to go back to the Common, so we're walking into town.
We've just passed Silk Dragon, the Chinese takeout we always go to. The
smell kills me. Chinese is my absolute favorite food.
I shrug.
“It's okay, you don't have to tell me where,” he says, grinning. “Anyone
visited yet?”
“No,” I say. “It sucks.”
“They'll come,” he says. “I don't know if you've noticed, but Bolford
isn't exactly New York City.”
The bloated feeling gets better as I walk. In fact, I feel okay, or as okay
as I ever feel. Okay-ish.
“Hey, did Mum tell you about the weekend after next?” Robin says.
“I don't think so.”
“Uncle Rich and Auntie Jess are going to Brighton, so I'm going to stay
at their place and look after James and Louise. You can come with me if
you like.”
James has this thing about staying over at other people's houses. The
thing being, he can't stand it. He says it disrupts his routine. James is kind
of … particular. For example, he has his own plate and cutlery, which he
uses for every single meal. When he goes on holiday, or around to anyone's
house, he takes them with him. I used to think this was kind of ridiculous,
but these days, I'm not exactly one to judge.
“Maybe,” I say.
“Might be nice to give Mum and Dad some time to themselves.”
I look up at him. A lump forms in my throat, about the size of a tennis
ball. I'm not upset exactly. More embarrassed. He means, it might be nice
to give Mum and Dad a break from me.
“It's up to you, little bro,” he says quickly. “But I wouldn't mind the
company. I might even let you pick the film, as long as you don't pick some
documentary on bird migration again.”
We carry on walking. Neither of us says anything for a while. We have
one of those extending leashes, and Sultan's way out in front of us, looking
for stuff he can scarf down before we notice it. Sultan likes walking down
the high street best, because there's always discarded food about. He treats
it like one of those sushi restaurants with a conveyor belt, where you reach
out and grab whatever you want.
I feel weird. Not hungry exactly, but like my body has just realized
whatever I drank two pints of wasn't food and is about to launch a
rebellion. A deep, sick feeling fills my stomach. My brother's now talking
about films we could watch, but I'm finding it hard to concentrate on what
he's saying. His voice seems far away, like an announcement on a train you
can't quite hear.
“How about Die Hard?” he says.
I turn to look at him, maybe respond, but it's cloudy. There's this sharp
feeling building in my left shoulder, a pulsing pain that seems to come from
nowhere.
And then everything goes black.
February 4
Dear Ana,
I'm an idiot. I'm a complete, total, 100 percent idiot. The
biggest idiot in the entire world.
I didn't eat any food all day, then drank two pints of
water, then went for a walk.
What exactly did I expect would happen?
I had to tell Robin. It was the only way I could stop him
from taking me to the hospital. He was convinced I was
about to keel over and die, right in front of him.
So I spilled the beans. Sort of. I explained that I fainted
because I hadn't eaten since breakfast. I didn't tell him about
the water thing. Even so, he was pretty mad.
Robin: “Jesus Christ, Max. This isn't a game.”
Me: “I'm sorry.”
“You could have split your head open.”
“I know.”
“You could have died.”
I didn't know how to respond to that. He was right: I
could have died. It's not like you have any control over which
way you fall when you faint. You just drop and smash into
whatever's near you. The curb. The road. A glass window.
We sat there on the pavement for ages, saying nothing.
Robin hugged Sultan, to keep him from coming over and
licking my face, but after a while, Sultan gave up. He lay
down on the pavement, looking glum. Good work, Max, you
somehow managed to ruin your dog
's day, as well as your
brother's.
Once my head cleared, I got up, and we started walking
back.
I tried to make a joke to break the mood. I was like, “I
think my body's telling me to say no to Die Hard.” Robin
hates any kind of tension or conflict. Even when he was a
teenager, if he flew off the handle about something, he came
around in about five minutes. I figured that as soon as I
tried to make up for stuff he would forgive me.
Nope. Instead he turned around and repeated the last
four words he'd said to me, which felt about thirty times as
brutal because of the fact he was repeating them like that.
You could have died.
My sessions with
8
Lindsay always come around quicker than I'm
expecting. Right after each one, I feel this huge sense of relief because I've
got two clear weeks. That lasts about three days. Then I'm starting to think
that it's only a few days till the halfway point. And suddenly, my next
appointment is closer than my last one. It's like I'm standing on the track as
the train hurtles closer and closer, and all I know how to do is count how
long I have left.
Because I always have to be counting something.
We start with my weigh-in. I step-touch the scales with my foot, wait
for the display to flash, then step on. I sort of push down onto the scales,
tensing my legs, because I want the number to be as big as possible.
The bigger that number is, the less I have to eat.
It thinks for a moment, then spits out a result. A pound and a half more
than I was expecting.
I weighed myself this morning, right before I drank two pints of water. I
haven't been to the loo since, and I'm wearing exactly the same clothes. So
I had a number in my head: the exact weight I knew I'd be. Two pounds
heavier than I was when I got up this morning.
But this number—the number I'm now staring at—is higher. Bigger.
Fatter.
For a moment, I'm happy, because if Lindsay thinks I'm putting on
weight, she won't put as much pressure on me. But then I think, how come
they're different? What's going on? Maybe these scales are wrong. But the
ones in a hospital are going to be pretty accurate, right?
Which means my scales at home are wrong. I'm heavier than I think.
Are you eating doughnuts in your sleep or something?
“Everything all right, Max?” Lindsay says.
I don't respond.
Since the Incident, I've felt pretty awful about myself. Like, even more
so than usual. You know when you buy a tub of raspberries, and they look
healthy enough, but the next day, every single one is covered in mold? It's
kind of like that. When I blacked out, it flipped some kind of switch, and
since then I've felt guilty about everything, all the time.
About making Robin cover for me.
About being a dick to Ram.
About lying to Lindsay.
This last one has actually led to some progress: I've started eating
chocolate bars. Kind of. On Saturday, we went to this National Trust estate
for a walk, and I surprised everyone by having a Twister from the van.
Yesterday, I had two fingers of a Kit Kat. I nearly had a Creme Egg this
morning, too (yep, it's February 8, and they are already in the shops), but I
chickened out at the last minute, because I was worried about what Lindsay
might add to my diet plan today.
I was really happy about all of this until fifteen seconds ago.
Do you reckon your mum and dad got special scales to trick you
into eating more?
Shut up shut up SHUT UP.
I want to throw up. I want to get everything I've eaten over the past two
weeks out of my body.
“You've lost a bit of weight since last time,” Lindsay is saying.
It takes me a moment to process it. I feel like a blue whale. I feel like, in
the past few days, I've eaten more food than I have in my entire life up to
that point. Mentally, I'm laying out all my meals on a table, like in those
shows where they show a family how disgustingly unhealthy their diet is by
piling table after table with all the chips and cookies and frozen meals
they've eaten in a month.
And she's telling me I've lost weight.
“So we need to talk about that,” she carries on. “And adjust our plan a
little.”
Coming in today, I figured there were two possible outcomes:
1. I've put on weight. In which case I'd be upset, but Lindsay would be
happy. Maybe she'd leave me alone for a bit.
2. I've lost weight. In which case I'd be thrilled, but Lindsay would
probably be mad at me and make me do things I really, really don't
want to do.
Now I'm realizing there's a third way: I can lose weight and still feel
terrible. Great.
“Okay,” I mumble, even though it feels like the least-okay thing in the
world.
“Don't worry about that for now,” Lindsay says. I guess she can tell
how nervous I am. She gestures for me to sit down. “We'll talk about it
later. Tell me how things have been since our last session.”
I always thought psychologists made you lie on couches, but Lindsay
has these molded plastic chairs. They're pretty uncomfortable—or at least,
they are for me. At home, I pretty much always sit on a cushion these days
because my bony ass doesn't really provide much cushioning of its own.
I wriggle around to find a good position. Maybe this is part of the
treatment: They make you sit on the world's least comfortable chair to show
you you're skinny.
Lindsay always starts by asking how things have been and what I've
been up to. I never have a good answer. It's not that I'm trying to come up
with a lie or anything. It's just that when you're anorexic, you don't do very
much. Well, Lindsay, I mainly read books and slept and studied for exams,
because my life is tragic and lonely. How about you?
The only new things I've done in the past two weeks are a) try (and
mostly fail) to eat chocolate bars; b) drink too much water, faint, and nearly
kill myself; and c) wander around looking for geocaches or checking my
own. I don't want to tell her about any of these things. But I've got to say
something, and the last one seems like the safest option.
“I've been … orienteering.”
“O-kay,” says Lindsay cautiously.
I look up at her. Normally, Lindsay is ridiculously enthusiastic about
pretty much anything I say to her, and especially anything about my
hobbies. Before Christmas, I told her about when Dad took me to
Brockholes and we saw a bittern. We ran fifteen minutes over the end of our
session because she asked so many questions.
There's a long pause. “Max,” she says eventually. “We talked about
running.”
Of course, she thinks I've just found a workaround. I guess orienteering
wasn't the best way to describe it. “It's not that kind of orienteering,” I
explain. “I don't run.”
I'm worried she won't believe me. I wouldn't. But she looks relieved
and sits back in her chair. “All right,” she says. “So, what do you do?”
It's at this point I realize, there's no way of explaining geocaching to
someone who's never heard of it that doesn't make it sound crazy. Um,
strangers leave boxes hidden in the woods, and I find them and see what
they've put in them. Or: I crawl around under park benches and shove my
hand into storm drains looking for bits of paper. See what I mean?
So I keep it vague. “You have a map and a few clues, but it's not a race.
It's more like a puzzle. I go with Robin sometimes.”
That last part seems to reassure her. She smiles. I guess my parents have
told her that my brother is a responsible adult (which is true as long as he's
not on a mountain bike).
We talk about geocaching some more. Things are going well. I'm not
even too worried about the scales—after all, I've still lost weight. But then
Lindsay drops a total bombshell.
“Max, your parents are going to join us in a moment, if that's all right.”
“Why?” I hear myself saying—shouting—as soon as the words hit me,
like a tennis player hitting a volley right back over the net.
“I'm really happy the effort you've been putting in. But to be honest, we
haven't made enough progress with your weight. Your BMI is currently …”
She looks down at her notes. But before she can read the number, I tell
her, “—.”
Then I realize what I've just said. My BMI is —.
Lindsay looks up at me. I look down at my lap. I'm trying to process the
two bits of news I've got in the last thirty seconds.
Mum and Dad are coming to my session for some reason.
My BMI has hit —.
Let me ask you a question: What's the most important number in your
life? I watched a film once, a romantic comedy, about a mathematician who
falls in love with the police officer who pulls him over for speeding. While
they're talking at the side of the road, the mathematician says, “Pi is the
most important number in the universe.” The officer responds, “I don't
think that's going to hold up in court.” Okay, so it was a super-cheesy
movie. But I thought that line was pretty funny.
Anyway, for me, my BMI—which stands for body mass index—is the
most important number in the universe. It's actually a pretty simple
equation: Your BMI is your weight in kilograms, divided by the square of
your height in meters. Doctors use it to figure out whether you're under- or
overweight.
I'm four feet eleven. One and a half meters. Square that, and you get
about 2.28. How many times does 2.28 go into —? The numbers are hard,
but I don't need to work them out, because I've got the whole table
memorized.
My magic number is now —, which means, for the first time ever, I'm
clinically underweight. Lindsay says BMIs are only a rough measure, and
that for my body shape I've actually been underweight for a while. But now
it's official.
“That's right,” says Lindsay, after a long, horrible pause. “And that's not
where we need it to be, Max.” She leans toward me, smiling. “That's why I
want to talk to you and your parents today. I want us all to come up with a
plan together.”
I don't say anything.
She asks me about how games have been, now that I'm not playing
rugby. But all I can think about is what's going to happen when Mum and
Dad get here.
Eventually, her phone rings. “Hello? Perfect. I'll be out in a minute.”
She turns to me. “They're here, Max. Will you be okay for a sec if I go and
fetch them?”
She says it like I'm a five-year-old or some psycho on a ward. Does she
think I'm going to jump out of the window or something?
“Whatever,” I say.
When Mum comes in, she beams at me and says, “Hi, love!” in this
super-happy, really fake-sounding voice. Dad smiles and nods, but doesn't
say anything. He looks kind of sheepish.
Because he's kind of guilty. They both are.
They sit down, and we talk bullshit for a while. How's everything, any
plans for the summer holidays, et cetera. I'm trying to act cool, like I don't
even care they're here. But quietly, I'm freaking out. Is Lindsay going to
confront me about the chocolate bars in front of Mum and Dad? Did Max
mention this to you at all, by the way? Maybe all this time, they've been
sending her daily updates, so Lindsay can see if my diary checks out.
They're conspiring to make you fat.
Dad's rabbiting on about how we're going camping again this year. He
has this whole speech about the social benefits of camping and why the
Howarths love to camp. (He's never actually asked me or Robin for
confirmation of this.)
“You know, it gives the kids real respect for the planet they live on. And
a real appreciation for any food that doesn't come from a tin, ha-ha. But
seriously, you know how much Max loves birds. And his brother is training
to be a furniture maker. He's very into conservation. Have you ever heard
the saying: Take nothing but photographs, leave nothing but footprints?
That's the mentality camping gives you …”
I look across at Mum, who seems like she's not even listening. She
usually groans at this speech and says things like, Joe, why don't you go
ahead and give them a pamphlet? all the way through, even if she laughs at
all of Dad's jokes. But today, she's sitting there in silence, with her hands in
her lap. She's been doing that a lot lately.
Even Lindsay looks like she doesn't really want to be listening to Dad's
speech. She has the face of someone who's waiting for a polite moment to
interrupt. Unfortunately for Lindsay, it's at least ten minutes before one
arrives.
“Have you ever tried camping, Dr. Hughes?” Dad finally asks.
“I'm afraid not,” replies Lindsay. And then, before Dad can move on to
his Camping for Beginners spiel, she adds: “And I'd love to talk about that
after our session, Mr. Howarth. For now, I think we need to move on.”
“Yes, of course,” says Dad. He looks only a little disappointed.
“As you know, I've been working with Max for nearly four months
now. And I think we've really got to know each other, which is great.” She
smiles at each of us in turn, ending with me. “I'm really happy about how
engaged you are with your treatment, Max, and I think now is a good time
to reflect on what we've achieved so far and what we still need to crack.
Does that make sense?”
I nod. This is, like, the most patronizing Lindsay's ever been. Normally,
it's Mum and Dad doing the whole talk-to-Max-really-slowly-and-gently
routine. Like as well as being an anorexic, I've also turned into a simpleton.
Sure, Lindsay's always ultra-nice, but she talks to me like a normal human
being.
Or at least, she used to.
“It makes total sense,” Dad confirms.
I nod. Mum doesn't react.
“Max, you've been keeping a diary of the things you eat for me,” she
says.
And you've been making half of it up, I add in my head.
You don't have a choice. If they got their way, you'd be obese.
“We started on December first, so that makes four months now. And
you were keeping your own records before then too, weren't you?”
“Yes,” I say. What am I supposed to say? She knows I was.
“That's been really helpful for me because I've built up a picture of
your eating patterns. But I'm worried it's started to control”—there's that
word again—“the way you eat. So, I'd like to try pausing your diary for a
couple of weeks.”
You. Are. Capital. S. Screwed. If you don't keep a record of
everything, you'll go psycho in about two minutes.
Helpful, Ana. Thanks.
I go to say something, but I stop myself at the last minute and end up
opening and closing my mouth like a goldfish.
“Yes, Max?” Lindsay says. She always catches when you're on the
verge of saying something.
What I was about to say was, That's the point. Controlling the way I eat
is the whole point. If I don't keep track of everything, I panic. That's why I
started doing it before I'd even met Lindsay. Because if I panic, it's much
worse. For everyone.
How can she not see that?
If she stops me from using my diary, I'll have to keep track of
everything in my head. Tomorrow morning I'll eat my slice of toast and
think of the number of calories, and then I'll hold that number in my head
all morning, reciting it, bouncing it around like a rubber ball. At lunchtime,
I'll add more numbers: a ham sandwich, an apple. The sums are easy to
start with. But you know when you're doing, say, laps in a swimming pool,
and you're trying to remember how many laps you've done? As soon as
you start thinking too much about it, you get confused. Am I on lap
fourteen or was I just thinking about lap fourteen? As soon as you start
thinking forward or back, your mind starts swimming, too. When I'm
sitting in geography, stomach growling, I'll start thinking about the bag of
chips I probably won't eat when I get home. I'll picture myself laying out
the chips, pouring away the crumbs so I know I'm under, then calculating
the calories in each one. I'll count up, imagining myself biting into each
one, feeling the salt and fat burst in my mouth … and then Stu will say
something to me, or Mr. French will ask us to turn to page 344 in our
textbook, and I'll forget what number I'm actually on. I'll panic and start
counting again from the beginning of the day. And I know it'll happen over
and over: all day, every day, like that game where you're packing a suitcase
and you have to recite everything people have said before you and then add
another thing of your own. Meanwhile, Ana's bombarding me with
questions:
Are you sure you didn't put more than an ounce of ham in your
sandwich?
Is that your sixth grape, or was the one you just ate your sixth?
How much did that apple weigh again?
You don't know. You're not sure. You're not in control anymore.
I don't know if I mentioned it, but I already think about food 90 percent
of the time. If I don't write stuff down, I'm pretty sure I can wave good-bye
to the last 10 percent of my sanity.
“Can I ask a question?” Dad says.
“Of course,” says Lindsay, swiveling her smile thirty degrees. “Go
ahead, Mr. Howarth.”
“Rebecca and I,” he says, reaching over and putting his hand on Mum's.
I could swear she flinches. “We've been trying our best to make this work
for Max.” He looks at me. “Because we love you, buddy. We'll do whatever
we have to. And that diary … well, I think you're right, Dr. Hughes. You're
dead right. That diary's now in charge. And to be honest, it puts a big strain
on the family.”
He turns to look at Mum, like this comment is aimed especially at her.
She smiles weakly at him. I reckon she's thinking the same thing I am:
What am I supposed to say to that?
Dad carries on. “But at the same time, it's given Max a way to organize
things. And I worry about taking it away.”
“I understand,” says Lindsay. “Max, what do you think about that?”
“Um,” I mumble.
I should be happy, because Dad's stuck up for the whole diary idea. But
I'm not even thinking about that. I'm focusing on what Dad said: I put a big
strain on the family. Okay, this isn't exactly new information. For instance,
Robin told me the exact same thing three days ago. But it's new to hear Dad
say it.
“It's … I don't know,” I stutter eventually.
“That's okay,” says Lindsay. “I think your dad makes an excellent point.
This could be a little disruptive. At the same time, I do want to try it
because I think it might help you be a little more relaxed around food. So
how about we give it a go for two weeks, and we'll talk about how it went
in our next session. If we need to come up with an alternative plan, that's
fine. And, Mr. Howarth, if you have any concerns at all, you can call me
anytime. Okay?”
Dad actually gets up and shakes Lindsay's hand at this point, like he's
just bought a used car from her. With his genes, no wonder I'm such a
weirdo.
February 13
Dear Ana,
Some days are normal. Some days, everything is okay, and I
eat three square meals, pretty much, even if those squares
are ridiculously small squares.
Some days, I can almost pretend there's nothing wrong.
Today I got up, ate my toast, and took Sultan for a
walk on the Common. When I got home, I read a book for a
bit, then played Zelda. Then I helped Mum make lunch: quiche
and salad. And I ate it all without making a fuss.
No, it's more than that. I enjoyed it. I enjoyed eating
my lunch! I wasn't adding up the numbers in my head with
every mouthful or worrying about whether my slice of
quiche was bigger or smaller than Mum's or whether it
represented exactly a quarter of the total. I was just …
eating it. Chewing it, swallowing it, tasting it.
I didn't even think about you once.
After lunch, I did some math homework until Robin came
home. He's been at the workshop a lot lately; it kind of feels
like he's been avoiding me since the Incident. But today, he
asked me if I wanted to go to the Common and look at birds.
To be clear, Robin has zero interest in looking at birds. But
that made it even nicer, like he was doing it for me. We
didn't see anything particularly special: coots, mallards,
herring gulls, Canada geese, and one shelduck. But I didn't
care.
Tea was okay, too. We had oven pizza—margherita,
which is my favorite because the toppings are basically
uniform, so there's no decision you have to make about
which slice has the most ham, or the least. I cut my slice
with protractor precision, made a little salad, did the
numbers, made sure I was happy before digging in. And it was
all fine. We had a completely normal conversation about the
new tapir enclosure at the zoo. The only wobble was dessert,
when I said I'd have some apple pie, then, uh … I kind of
ended up feeding most of it to Sultan under the table. But it
wasn't a big deal.
The whole day was completely uneventful. Completely
normal.
It was the best day I've had in weeks.
And now I'm sitting here, trying to figure out why.
What's the pattern? Is there some kind of rule I'm missing?
What made today different from yesterday or the day
before? How did I manage to stay in control? Because if I can
find out what happened, I can repeat it. I can stack up
normal days until I'm living a normal life.
Maybe it was to do with the cooking: I was always
involved. Or maybe it was because I only ate things that
divided into easy-to-measure portions. But then I remember
the last time I felt normal. It was about two weeks ago, and
I'm pretty sure we had spaghetti with meatballs—aka, the
most impossible-to-portion food in the world.
That blows that theory.
Is it because I'm not keeping a food diary anymore?
Maybe—I have to admit, it's not been as bad as I thought it
would be. But that's mostly because I've been reciting the
numbers like some kind of monk's chant so there's no way I
can lose track. And like I said, this isn't the first time I've
felt like this.
Maybe it was the weather or a blip in my brain
chemistry, or—who knows—the way the planets were
aligned. Was it a full moon? I could be a kind of reverse
were-eater: I stop being crazy about food when there's a full
moon.
Wait a second—I just realized something. I'm tearing my
hair out trying to figure out how to control my anorexia.
But needing to control everything is part of the problem.
It's an anorexic's—sorry, a person with anorexia's—
solution. I don't need to give you ground rules, Ana. I'm sick
of rules. What I need to do is kick you out of my head for
good, and never ever let you back in.
We're on our
9
way to Auntie Jess's house to babysit for the weekend. I
figured it would be a good way to show Robin that I really am sorry about
the Incident. Plus, a change of scene is supposed to make you feel better,
right?
Robin's really quiet on the drive over. I can't tell if he's decided he's
mad at me again or if it's something else.
“How's work?” I ask him, trying to start a conversation.
“Fine.”
That's all he says.
When we arrive, Auntie Jess and Uncle Rich are loading stuff into the
car. Lots of stuff. They're only going away for two days, but the back seat
of the hybrid Uncle Rich keeps telling us about is so full you can barely see
through the rear window.
Auntie Jess has made a long list of things we should do while we're
staying, and an even longer list of things we shouldn't. For example, we
have to make sure James drinks water or Ribena, not Coke. We can't eat the
Gouda in the cupboard, which they got from Holland last year and are
saving for a special occasion of some kind. We can't use the downstairs
toilet. Even though she's written all this down, Auntie Jess still talks us
through each item. It takes about an hour. Uncle Rich sits in the car the
whole time, beeping the horn every so often and shouting, “Jess, we need to
go.”
Even Mum, who tries her best not to say anything negative about
anyone, admits that her sister is a tad high-maintenance. I guess it runs in
the family. On Tuesday, Mum called her to talk through the meal plan for
the weekend. We agreed she'd buy stuff in for tonight: steak pies with new
potatoes and French beans. Tomorrow morning, Robin and I will go
shopping for the rest of the food, so I can keep track of everything.
When Auntie Jess finally leaves, the first thing I do is go to the fridge
and check the nutritional information on the steak pies.
It's a lot. I knew it was going to be heavy, but it's way more than I
thought. Each one contains more than half the calories I eat in a day. I'm
already feeling pretty nervous about this weekend's eating, given a) James
and Louise will probably ask awkward questions, because that's what kids
do; and b) I'm still getting used to the whole no-diary thing. It wasn't too
bad when I was at home because I could work everything out in my head in
advance. But I can't do that here. And I'm sharing a room with Robin, so
it's not like I can even lie about it.
You'll end up like a sumo wrestler if you eat one of those.
I put the pies down on the side, go over to the fridge, and push against it
as hard as I can, because I need to do something with my body other than
scream.
A moment later, Robin comes in. “What kid sits down quietly and starts
doing watercolors …” He's talking about Louise. But he trails off when he
sees me. “What's up?”
“I can't eat those pies,” I tell him.
“No problem,” he says. “But you have to have something else instead.”
He doesn't miss a beat. Sometimes, he's exactly like Dad.
We go and peer into the fridge together.
“Cheese?” he says.
A lump of cheese is my usual fallback at home, when Mum and Dad
and Robin are having something I don't want to eat. Something I can't eat.
It's way easier than meat. Every piece of meat is different: There are seams
of fat, dark bits, and light bits. You never know quite what you're going to
get. But cheese—at least, hard yellow cheese—is the same all the way
through.
I nod.
“But not the Gouda,” he says, in this high-pitched voice that doesn't
really sound anything like Auntie Jess.
And in spite of everything, I burst out laughing.
The next morning, we all walk to the supermarket together. Louise is
delighted about this. James isn't. The whole way there, he lists useful things
he could be doing if we weren't dragging him to the supermarket—things
like putting the washing on, mowing the lawn, and getting ahead with his
math homework.
“Sure,” says Robin. He gives James a yeah-right look. “Or watching the
rest of that season of Bob's Burgers.”
James scowls.
But Louise is thrilled. She keeps asking me about what we're having.
And then suggesting changes. I LOVE pizza. Can we have ice cream instead
of yogurt? I'm not sure how to tell her, If we do that, I'll go Hulk-crazy on
you.
As usual, Robin knows what to do. “Signed off by your mum,” he
explains. “She'll go nuts if we change things now.”
Louise nods solemnly.
I spent hours figuring out the meal plan for this weekend. It goes like
this:
Friday
Tea
Steak pie, new potatoes, and French beans
Sponge cake
Saturday
Breakfast
Toast and cereal
Lunch
Ham-and-tomato sandwiches
Yogurt
Tea
Pizza, garlic bread, and salad
Sliced peaches with cream and digestive biscuits
Sunday
Breakfast
Muesli
Lunch
Shepherd's pie and peas
Apple crumble
Actually, it's more complicated than that. There are really two columns:
one for me, one for everyone else. Mine doesn't include sponge cake or
garlic bread, and it has stewed fruit instead of crumble … you get the
picture.
I've stuck to the rules: I haven't written down the calories anywhere.
But if you asked me, right now, I could tell you the exact number for every
item on that list. Even the ones I'm not actually eating.
When Mum showed it to Auntie Jess, she was delighted. Apparently,
she asked if I could plan all of James's and Louise's meals. Turns out I'm
much better at feeding other people than I am at feeding Max Howarth.
When we get to the supermarket, Robin grabs a cart and just says, Lead
the way, little bro. I get the fresh veg first: lettuce, tomatoes, and cucumber
for the salad. Carrots for the shepherd's pie. Easy peasy. When we get to the
bakery section, James and Louise both demand iced buns. Robin refuses.
While they're distracted, I grab the bread I want: Hovis Soft White
Medium. I know from looking in their bread bin last night that it isn't what
they normally have, and I've been worrying about whether they'll kick up a
fuss. I put the loaf in the cart and cover it with a bag of salad so they don't
notice it. Fortunately, they're still arguing about the iced buns.
Hey, crazy thought. Maybe they have, like, actual lives, and don't
care what kind of bread you get?
When we get back, we have lunch, which goes okay, then watch four
episodes of Bob's Burgers back to back. There's only one awkward
moment, which is when Robin talks about bingeing—as in, on TV—then
realizes what he's said, and stops dead and looks at me.
I decide to wind him up and try to act like I'm shocked. Like I'm about
to cry. I last for about two seconds, then burst out laughing.
“What's so funny?” James asks.
“Nothing,” I say.
He scowls at me.
“Hey,” says Robin, pausing the TV and getting up from the sofa. “Who
wants to play a board game?”
“Ummm …,” I say.
I like board games: They're one of the few social activities that doesn't
involve eating or drinking. But James is nine, and Louise is only seven. At
our house, we normally play things like Scrabble and Trivial Pursuit,
whereas when the Donalds come over, they usually choose the Game of
Life, which is what Robin witheringly calls a game of chance.
So, yeah, I'm kind of skeptical whether we're going to agree on
anything. I give Robin an eyebrow wiggle that I'm hoping he'll interpret as
It will be rubbish and/or How about a jigsaw instead? But either he's
ignoring me, or he doesn't understand. He turns to Louise. “Wanna show us
what you've got, Louise?”
Before I can say anything, she's bounding up the stairs. We follow her
up.
The games cupboard is in Louise's bedroom. Actually, it's pretty much
the same size as her bedroom. It's like a walk-in wardrobe, but for games.
There are literally hundreds of boxes in there, stacked right up to the
ceiling. Board games, jigsaws, boxes of Lego. We all peer in, like
Egyptologists who've discovered a new burial chamber.
“Boggle?” says Robin, after maybe twenty seconds.
Louise looks at him with a screwed-up face, like she's been sucking on
a lime.
“Okay then,” he says breezily. “Um … how about Risk?”
“Don't play Risk with her,” says James. He looks at his sister and
narrows his eyes. “She guilt-trips you into un-invading areas you've won,
so she can win them back.”
“I think that's called diplomacy,” says Robin. “Okay then, cards?
Farmer's Bridge?”
“Farmer's Bridge?” Louise sniffs the air suspiciously? “I've never
played that.”
“Me either,” says James. “It sounds weird.”
“It's great,” Robin says. “And super-easy to pick up. Right, Max?”
He reaches into the cupboard and pulls out a Tupperware box stuffed
with decks of cards.
“Right,” I say, mainly because I don't think there's much point in saying
anything else.
Farmer's Bridge actually is pretty simple. Each round, you guess how
many tricks you're going to win, and you only score if you win exactly that
number. You start with one card, then two, then three, and so on all the way
up to eight, and then back down. There's a bit of skill in predicting your
tricks and knowing when to win or lose them. But it's at least 50 percent
luck.
As soon as we sit down at the table, before Robin's even started
shuffling the cards, James asks, “Can I have a snack while we play?”
I'm pretty sure my jaw actually drops, like in a cartoon. We finished
lunch at 1:30. Since then, James has eaten an apple, a Snickers, and three
custard creams. It's 3:26.
“Sure,” Robin says. “I think I saw some Doritos in the cupboard. How
about those?”
I doubt Auntie Jess would be too keen on this idea, especially after all
those biscuits—which is probably why James looks like he's won the
lottery. But I'm not going to get involved. Robin goes into the kitchen, then
shouts back to us: “Tangy Cheese or Cool Original?”
“Cool Original!”
“Tangy Cheese!”
They answer at the exact same time, then turn and scowl at each other.
They've had this argument before.
But Robin is a peacemaker: He opens both packs and gives them one
each. Fine—as long as no one makes me have any. I've not eaten Doritos
since I've been ill, but I still know the numbers on the back of the pack. I
can recite calorie counts for things I haven't had in years off by heart. I can
tell you that the fruit flavors of Pop-Tarts—Frosted Blueberry, Frosted
Raspberry, and Strawberry Sensation—are the most calorific. And I can tell
you the calories in any dish on the McDonald's menu, even though I've
only eaten there once in the past year, and all I had was an apple pie.
Yeah, I know. This is the worst party trick ever. I am the world's most
boring encyclopedia.
James doesn't do well in the first couple of rounds, mainly because he's
too busy stuffing his face to concentrate. He's like a machine: He scoops up
the next handful of Doritos while he's still chewing the last, and crams it in
on top, then dips his hand into the bag again. At one point, he turns to look
at me like, What's up? and I realize I've been staring at him for five
minutes.
So he doesn't play well, and neither do I. I wonder whether he's going
to get huffy about losing, but he doesn't seem to care much. He finishes the
Doritos by pouring the powder at the bottom of the bag into his mouth.
Louise is stuffing her face, too, but apparently she can concentrate on eating
and kicking our butts at the same time. She's winning by fifty points, and
we're only four rounds in.
My phone beeps. I pull it out of my pocket and wake up the screen.
I do a double take.
“Max, it's your turn.”
“Hold on a sec,” I say.
“Mum says we're not allowed to check our phones at the kitchen table,”
Louise appeals to Robin.
Robin shakes his head. “You have a phone? What are you, like, five?”
Louise looks furious. “I'm seven,” she declares.
“Fair enough then. I take it all back. Everything okay, Max?” Robin
asks me.
“Yeah. Um, sorry,” I mumble. “I have to go to the bathroom. Sorry.”
I'd pretty much given up on the idea of anyone visiting. I figured that,
somehow, word had got around that the new cache in Bolford is owned by a
sad little anorexic, and no one should visit. But now I'm sitting on the toilet,
cover down, staring at the first comment ever on my cache:
TFTC! Nicely hidden. :D
The user is called Stallone05. Which is a pretty stupid name. But I don't
care.
A complete stranger found my cache and took the time to write a
message.
For me. To me.
It might not sound like a big deal. Okay, it probably sounds super-lame.
But remember, this is me. Max Howarth, the boring, loser anorexic.
The guy who crosses the street to avoid strangers.
The guy who hasn't spoken to anyone outside of my family over the
weekend for, like, six months.
Today, a stranger went out of their way get in touch with me.
I hear a knock on the door. “Everything okay in there?” asks Robin.
And for once, I can give him an honest answer.
“Everything's fine.”
After the game—Louise ends up winning by a country mile—I start
cooking tea. Well, cooking is a bit of a stretch: All I have to do is put the
pizza in the oven and make some salad. While I slice cucumbers and
tomatoes, Robin lays the table, and James and Louise go back to Bob's
Burgers.
Twenty minutes later, I call everyone to the table. I've already put a
plate with pizza in front of everyone; the salad's in a bowl, except mine,
which I've already portioned out on my plate. I know it's sad, but I'm pretty
proud of the salad. I cut the vegetables really neatly and laid them in rings
on top of the lettuce to make a nice pattern. I even made a vinaigrette.
Just to be clear, you're definitely 100 percent a sad case.
“I'm not hungry,” Louise declares as soon as she sees the food. She
crosses her arms to emphasize the point.
We take our seats. Louise flops down and sighs, and leans right back in
her chair.
“Probably all those Doritos you ate,” Robin says. He glances across at
James, who is happily cramming a slice of pizza into his mouth. He either
hasn't clocked the salad or isn't interested. “It doesn't seem to have
bothered your brother much, mind.”
James doesn't look up. I'm not sure he actually hears anything over the
sound of his jaws gnashing.
“It's no big deal,” I say, sticking to my mantra.
But Robin carries on. “You've got to eat it, Louise,” he says gently.
“Max made it for us.”
“All he did was heat up some pizzas,” she mutters, pushing her plate
away.
“One, don't be rude,” Robin says. “Two, that's not the point.”
Of course, Louise is right. But it's kind of a low blow. And Robin
knows that that's not the only thing I'll be upset about.
Food waste drives me crazy. I'm not sure exactly why. Maybe it's
because in my world, food is everything, and however else I feel about it, I
can't imagine not caring about it. I can't imagine happily throwing it away.
I get upset about tiny things, like when people peel too much off potatoes or
cut the crusts off bread. You can imagine how I felt watching my cousin
refuse to eat a whole meal.
Once again, my brother's looking out for me. But if there's one thing I
hate more than food waste, it's attention. “It's no big deal,” I say again.
Robin gives me a stern look. “It is, Max.”
“Why did you eat those Doritos, idiot?” James says to his sister, with a
grin.
“You ate them, too,” Louise replies accusingly.
“But I'm still eating my tea, aren't I?”
Robin rubs his eyes. “James, you're not really helping.” He sounds tired
rather than cross. Like he's spent all day looking after three stupid kids, and
he's had enough.
“I'm just saying,” mutters James, picking up another slice of pizza.
“Well don't. And have some salad, please.” Robin turns to Louise and
points at the pizza in front of her. “Look, if you eat some of that you can
have pudding, okay?”
Which I guess is a good tactic if the person you're talking to actually
wants pudding. But Louise lobbied pretty hard for ice cream, and only
agreed to have sliced peaches when I told her she could have a scoop of
vanilla with her crumble tomorrow.
She sighs and holds her hand to her head, like a character in a Victorian
novel. “No peaches for me.”
Then James pushes his plate away. There's one half-eaten slice of pizza
in front of him. “If she's allowed to skip stuff, how come I have to eat
salad?”
My stomach lurches. So all this food's going to waste. Good job, Max.
And you've eaten more than anyone else. Jesus Christ.
You're getting fat, while they stay nice and thin.
“Everyone has to have a bit of salad,” Robin says.
“You didn't say anything about salad,” says Louise. “You're changing
the rules. I thought we had a deal.”
Louise will probably tell Auntie Jess, and she'll wind up mad at me or
at Mum. I trusted him to look after them, Becks. But apparently they ate
chips and cookies all day.
I feel that hot, prickling sensation in my spine, like when you've been
concentrating on something for too long, and you know that you're about to
flip out. I drop my hands into my lap, clasp them together, and squeeze my
nails into my palms. In my head, I can see the little white dents in my skin.
“Fine, neither of you has to have salad. But you've got to finish your
pizza.”
“Finish it?” says Louise. “You just said—”
But she doesn't get to finish. I don't let her.
If you put a lid on something and keep heating it, the pressure grows.
That's me: the human pressure cooker. The boy who's been listening to
every single little gripe, all day long, and trying to pretend he's cool with it.
The boy who's found a way to control everything except himself. I can't
even describe what I'm feeling exactly. I don't know how to categorize it.
Shame. Anger. Envy. Fear. They all meld into one: one white-hot ball of
emotion that's way, way too big to fit inside me.
The pressure grows and grows and grows. And at some point, it's got to
find a way out.
I grab the glass in front of me, stand up, and hurl it at the wall. There's a
shimmering crash when it hits. I watch everyone flinch. They turn toward
me in slo-mo, mouths and eyes wide-open. Pieces of glass skitter into every
corner of the room.
And I hear myself screaming.
“SHUT UP! WHY CAN'T YOU ALL JUST SHUT UP?”
My left foot is stinging.
It's the first thing I notice, the first thing that drifts into my head. I know
it's a cliché, but everything happened in a blur. Another fight-or-flight
response. But the pain from my foot bursts the bubble. I stop dead, look
around, and realize I'm already halfway home.
I wiggle my toes. My sock feels wet. I know it's not good for me to
bleed, because of how low my iron is. I sit down on the pavement and take
off my shoe and sock. It looks bad at first: My sock is strawberry-brown,
soaked with sweat and blood, but when I bend my foot around, I can see
how small the cut is. Dad loves telling people how the Howarths have great
circulation. I mean, mine's not as good as it used to be—but I guess it's still
all right.
I can't see any glass. I really don't want to think about whether there's
glass inside the wound, because then I'll definitely faint. As soon as the
thought enters my head, my vision starts to go cloudy. I get on all fours, so
my head isn't too much higher than the rest of my body. It's pretty hard for
me to faint like that—and even if I do, I'm probably not going to break
anything.
I figure that the glass, or some of it, could be loose in my shoe, or stuck
on my sock. Sure enough, when I turn my shoe over and shake it, I hear the
tinkle of something bouncing off the pavement.
I just hope that was all of it.
Nice work, idiot. If your cousins didn't think you were a fruitcake
before, they definitely do now. What next?
“I don't know, Ana,” I reply out loud.
It's too dark to go to the Common. The way I see it, I've got two
options. I can go back to Auntie Jess's and face James, Louise, and Robin.
Or I can go home and face Mum and Dad. Right now, they both seem
equally terrible. My cheeks start tingling just thinking about it. All I want to
do is hide.
You should do something really crazy, like burn down that factory
or rob a bank. That would be cool.
But I've got to face them eventually. And sooner is probably better than
later.
I pull my damp sock and shoe back on, stand up, and test my weight on
my foot. It's sore, but it's bearable—as long as I don't think about it too
much.
I take a deep breath and start walking.
And Ana starts talking again. To keep me company, I guess. Cheers,
Ana.
You're stupid. You're pathetic. You've screwed everything up …
When you picture someone with anorexia, who do you see? A girl,
right? Clever. Pretty. She goes to the kind of school where they wear blazers
and put on monthly piano recitals, and where there aren't any boys at all.
Her parents put her under tons of pressure—to get As, to pass her piano
exams, to get into Oxbridge—and some of the other girls bully her. She
starves herself because she's trying to fit in with the cool girls, the bullies,
or because she feels like her whole life is out of her hands and she can't
escape; and the way she eats, the way she looks, the number she sees on the
scales every morning … it's the only thing she can control.
I've never spoken to a girl like that. I mean, I've never spoken to
anyone else with anorexia, as far as I know. Maybe that's exactly what
some anorexics are like. I'll be honest: Some of the girls on the forums
sound exactly like that.
But for me, it's different. My parents never put me under any pressure—
or at least, not about stuff like that. I don't have a single clue where I'll go
for university or if I'll go at all. I get picked on sometimes, but no more
than anyone else. And I definitely, definitely don't want to be friends with
Darren and Shinji.
Oh, and in case you haven't noticed, I'm about as cool and pretty as a
slug.
Look at any website or newspaper article about anorexia, and they'll
usually blame the beauty industry for promoting unrealistic beauty
standards for women, which basically means that they make women feel fat
and ugly so they can sell them diets and clothes and makeup. I think that's
true. But it's not the whole story. Because hello, I'm an anorexic, too. And
last time I checked, no one's trying to sell me makeup.
It's worse for girls. It must be. Their friends all tell them how good they
look, how jealous they are, ask them to share their slimming secrets. I don't
know what that feels like. I mean, I used to get called chubby sometimes,
and now I don't. But that isn't the same. No one's actually telling me I look
better this way.
On the other hand, when it comes to recovery, all that shit might take
the pressure off. Fine, I went a bit overboard there. But when everyone was
telling me how good I looked, who could blame me? When you filled my
brain with images of stick-thin girls and diet tips and exercise regimes,
what did you expect?
Me, I don't have anyone else to blame. I made that nagging voice up for
myself. I gave her a name, showed her how to keep me in line. It's kind of
impressive, actually, how I managed to screw my brain up all by myself.
Men can be muscly, as well as skinny. Even I know that. If I look at a
picture of some football player, I can see that they're in shape. I can see
they look good.
So why do I want to be stick-thin?
Now that I think of it, it's kind of funny that Ana, my inner anorexic, is
pretty much the stereotypical cool girl, the one who's bullying the shy,
high-achieving girl with the demanding parents. Even in my head,
anorexia's a disease for posh girls.
Man up, Max, for God's sake.
Even before I go inside the house, I know something's not right. There's
only one car in the drive, and all the lights are on downstairs. I guess that
wouldn't be strange in anyone else's house—it's not exactly late—but Dad
is crazy about saving electricity. When we were little, he used to deduct five
pence from our pocket money every time we left a light on accidentally.
For a moment, I'm happy: Finally, I've caught Dad breaking the rules.
But then I get this weird, churning feeling in my stomach, like something
bad is about to happen. Like this is the first scene in a horror movie. I try to
tell myself that this feeling is pretty normal for me now, which is true.
Another fun symptom of anorexia: You spend hours imagining all the
terrible things that could happen to you and your family. All day long—or
more commonly, all night long—I imagine terrorist attacks, house fires,
kidnappings. Last night, I dreamed that Sultan got hit by a car.
“You're being stupid,” I say out loud, trying to convince myself. It
doesn't work. I take a gulp of air, then push open the front door.
“Hello?”
The voice comes from the lounge, and it's quickly followed by a volley
of barks from Sultan. I feel a surge of happiness. Dad's here. Dad's alive! I
start walking down the hall, without replying: I'm so relieved I've forgotten
that he wasn't expecting me home.
“Who's there?” Dad shouts.
I reach the door to the lounge, peer around it. “It's me,” I say. Sultan
comes over, tail ablaze. I stroke his ears.
“Max,” Dad says curiously, like he was expecting it to be someone else.
He's standing in the middle of the room, looking lost. It doesn't look like he
got up when I came in; it looks like he's been there for ages. “You scared
me.”
“I'm sorry,” I reply. I look up at him properly. His eyes are red. He
looks tired. I thought he only looked like that when I was around.
Sultan, satisfied that I'm a) a member of the pack and b) not about to
feed him or take him for a walk, ambles over to the fireplace and slumps
down on the rug.
“What are you doing home?” Dad asks. I see his face fall, a moment of
panic. “Is everything all right? Where's Robin?”
“He's at Auntie Jess's,” I say. “With James and Louise. Everything's
fine.”
“So why are you here?”
I don't say anything because I don't know what to say. I follow Sultan's
lead and slump down on the sofa. Dad looks at me for a minute, then sits
down next to me, and puts his arm around my shoulder.
We sit there in silence for a while. For a few minutes, I guess. Then,
under my breath, I tell him, “I freaked out, Dad.”
“It's okay,” he says straight back.
“No, it's not. I left Robin on his own. I scared James and Louise. And
Auntie Jess is going to flip.”
I'm telling Dad what happened—but really, I'm telling myself, too. I
hadn't processed any of it until now.
Dad's response is really weird. He laughs. I look up at him.
“She'll come around,” he says. “Don't worry. Does Robin know where
you are now?”
“I guess not.”
He goes to call him. I stay sitting on the sofa. We have this big family
portrait that sits on our mantelpiece from when I was six, and Robin was
thirteen. Eight years ago. I barely remember going to get it taken, but Mum
and Dad have filled in the blanks over the years. Mum made Robin wear a
shirt and tie. He wasn't happy about it. He was a pretty moody teenager. (At
least, I thought so at the time. It's all relative I guess.) About ten minutes
before we were supposed to leave, he scrunched the shirt Mum had laid out
for him into a big ball. Mum was furious. By the time she'd ironed it again,
we were late. In the picture, you can see Dad's forehead is glistening
slightly, and Mum's cheeks are red. Meanwhile, Robin is scowling like an
eagle owl. Apparently, the photographer shot a whole roll of film, and
Robin was scowling in every single photo. Mum tells this story every
Christmas; she'll never let Robin forget it.
In that photo, I'm the one who looks happy and carefree. The only one.
Now, eight years later, I'm the scowling teenager. I'm the one making
everyone's life difficult. Will I grow out of it, like Robin did? Or am I too
screwed up for that?
“Okay,” says Dad, coming back into the room. “All sorted. Robin says
they ate everything in the end. Louise even had the peaches.”
Which—guess what—makes me feel about a thousand times worse.
“Did you eat?” Dad says.
I had like five bites. “Yes,” I tell him.
“I was about to make some noodles. Are you sure you don't—”
I cut him off. “I'm fine. Hey, where's Mum?” Because when was the
last time Mum was out at 8:00 p.m. on a Saturday?
I see something strange in Dad's face—a flicker, like he was thrown off
by the question somehow. But it only lasts a moment. He gives me one of
his big goofy smiles. “She's having dinner with Clare and Bill.”
“How come you didn't go? Are you ill?” I tilt my head. “You do look
pretty tired.”
“Gee, thanks. I just didn't really feel like it. Plus,” he adds, pointing to
the book on the table, “that thing doesn't read itself, you know.”
The book is Moby-Dick. Dad's been reading it since before Christmas.
The other day he said to me, You know, I used to read a book a day before I
had kids.
Reading a book doesn't seem like a good enough reason not to go out.
But what do I know?
Dad looks at his watch. “I'm happy to drive you back over to Auntie
Jess's if you'd like.”
“That's okay,” I say. “Unless you want to get rid of me.”
I meant it as a joke. Mostly. But Dad grabs my shoulders and gives me
this super-serious look.
“I never want to get rid of you, Max. You shouldn't ever think that.”
“Thanks?” I say, pulling a stop-being-a-freak-Dad face.
And then we both start laughing.
When you're anorexic, the line between happiness and sadness is
thinner than spider silk. It takes the tiniest thought, the smallest push, to
move you from one to the other. To ruin the best day ever or make a
nightmare seem okay. I live on a knife-edge. I teeter back and forth; a
feeling can last a second or an hour or a day. Sometimes, I'm in control just
long enough that I think I've found a way to balance. To stay on the line
everyone else seems to stay on without really thinking about it.
Then the universe gives me a shove.
I wake up when I hear the front door open. I check my phone: 3:02. I
don't think Mum's ever stayed out past midnight before. I listen as she
shuffles about downstairs, hanging her coat in the hallway, going to the
bathroom, getting a glass of water from the kitchen. She pads gently up the
stairs and opens the door to a room she's never slept in before, as far as I
know: Robin's room. It clicks behind her. And then everything's quiet
again.
March 3
Dear Ana,
Evie is weird. Like, super-weird. I mean, I know I'm not
exactly one to talk. But if there was a competition to find
the World's Most Screwed-Up Teenager, I think we'd both
make the playoffs.
Today, in English, she did the weirdest thing yet. We're
studying this book called Holes, which is about these kids
who have to dig holes in the desert as punishment for things
they've done wrong. It's pretty good, I guess, although it
kind of makes me sad that I can't do proper exercise
anymore. I don't think this is the reaction you're supposed
to have.
Anyway, Evie was sitting right in front of me, so I
couldn't help watching what she was doing. What she was
doing was plucking the hairs out of her eyebrow, one by one.
That's eyebrow singular: the left one.
But that wasn't even the weirdest thing.
Halfway through the lesson, Mr. French—yep, our
English teacher is called Mr. French—asked us what symbols
there are in the book. English teachers believe everything in
a book symbolizes something or other, from the weather to
the color of the main character's T-shirt. I reckon that
most of the time the writer needed to pick a color, and
they could just as easily have picked blue instead of orange.
Anyway, Mr. French decided to pick on me.
Mr. French: “Max, can you tell me what the most
important symbol in Holes is?”
Me: “Ummm …”
I was hoping he'd just tell me or pick on someone else.
But he didn't. Mr. French has serious stamina. So eventually,
I gave him the best answer I had.
“Holes?”
I got a laugh for that, a real one. And right in front of
me, there was this huge snort, like an elephant sneezing.
Which made everyone laugh again. “Very droll, Mr. Howarth,”
said Mr. French, before telling us what the actual main
symbol in the book is. (Onions, in case you're wondering.)
As soon as he looked away, Evie spun around and stared
at me. Her left eyebrow was pretty much bare. She looked
kind of crazy.
What? I mouthed at her. And okay, I'm not 100 percent
sure what she mouthed back. I might have got it wrong. But
I know what it looked like.
I love you.
Then she burst out laughing and turned back to face the
front of the class.
At this point, I'm pretty used to people mocking me.
But Evie has a grand total of zero friends at Deanwater
High. And one eyebrow. She spends most of her time standing
across the playground from me, Stu, and Ram, just staring.
In my opinion, she's definitely not in any position to mock.
At the end of class, I went up to her and said hi. I
wanted to ask her what she'd said without telling her what I
thought she'd said. But I didn't get the chance. She took one
look at me, rolled her eyes, and said, “Leave me alone,
dickhead.”
Somehow, I now have two crazy girls in my life.
“There's a new
10
one,” Robin announces. “Come on.”
I'm stretched out on the sofa, not watching TV. I don't react for a
moment because I'm too surprised.
“Heellooo?” Robin says, waving his hand in front of my face like I'm a
broken robot. “Is this thing on?”
I pick up the remote, pause. “Where?”
“I'll show you.”
After what happened at Auntie Jess's house, I kind of assumed that was
it: I'd blown it. Robin would never ever talk to me again. Sure enough, he's
barely said a word to me for three weeks. In fact, he's gone out of his way
to not even see me. For example, I'm pretty sure lumber companies don't
normally deliver at 8:00 p.m., right when we normally have dinner.
So, yeah. It's kind of a shock when he launches into conversation like
it's nothing.
I get my shoes and my fleece, and we set out toward town. Robin
doesn't say anything else on the way. Ana starts to spin crazy theories, like,
he's going to take me to the woods and kill me, or just tie me to a tree and
leave me there.
It's like when you have mice: You have to take them at least a mile
away to get rid of them, otherwise they come right back.
Even I can see she's gone off the deep end today.
Twenty minutes later, we're by the Starbucks on Station Road, trying to
look for a geocache without looking like drug dealers. Our outfits don't
exactly help. Robin is wearing his workshop jeans, which are speckled with
blobs of paint and varnish and glue, plus a white T-shirt. I'm in some old
combat trousers with holes in the knees, and an orange T-shirt that I got
when we went to Amsterdam five years ago (it was big on me then, but still,
I'm wearing a nine-year-old's T-shirt, and it's not even tight), and a purple
fleece. If a police officer strolled by right now, I wouldn't blame him for
asking what's going on here.
The clue just says “Itsy bitsy,” which we assume means it's something
to do with a drainpipe; there are two running down the wall between
Starbucks and the charity shop next door. Nothing else seems plausible.
Sometimes, the tagged location is off by a few meters. But it's never more
than that.
“Itsy bitsy,” Robin murmurs to himself for the fifth time, as though if
he'd said it enough times, the cache might magically reveal itself. His eyes
slowly climb the drainpipe.
“Anyone found it yet?” I ask.
Most caches get muggled eventually. That means someone who doesn't
know about geocaching finds it and moves it, or destroys it. If a cache
hasn't been found for a while, there's a good chance it's been muggled.
“First one was two days ago,” Robin says, running his hand behind the
pipe. “And the guy said, ‘Very clever,' which I reckon means it's well
hidden.”
“Okay,” I say, sagging slightly.
We search for ages. We don't, like, actually want to get arrested, so we
keep doing these slow walks back and forth. Robin jokes that we should
have brought stick-on mustaches and changes of clothes, in case anyone is
watching us. I laugh, but not because he's actually funny—he isn't. I'm just
relieved he's talking to me. I still can't work out if he's just forgotten he's
mad at me or he's trying to show me that it's over.
Anyway, we think we're being pretty subtle until this old lady with a
shopping cart comes up to us and says, Are you still bothering that squirrel?
So much for being super-sleuths.
Eventually, Robin gives me this pained look and shrugs. “I give up.” Me
and Robin are similar in lots of ways, and one of them is, we both hate
giving up on stuff.
“It could have been muggled in the past two days,” I point out.
He nods. “Maybe.” But you can tell he doesn't believe it. I don't either,
really. I was just trying to make him feel better. He points at Starbucks and
says, “Hey, you want to get a drink? My treat.”
“Um, sure.”
Robin has a super-mega-triple-double caramel latte, or something. I
have a tap water.
“Want anything to eat?” he asks me, grinning. He does this sometimes:
jokes about it. I'm cool with it. In fact, I kind of like it. It breaks the
tension. Unfortunately, Mum and Dad will never, ever get to this point. I
tried to make a joke to Mum a couple of weeks ago. We were out walking
Sultan, and we had to cross a cattle grid. I said, I better go around or I'll
fall through. Robin would have laughed his head off at this for sure. But
Mum looked like I'd punched her in the gut.
It's different with Robin.
“You know what, I'm good,” I tell him. “Thanks, though.”
“Suit yourself, stickman,” he replies. “I'm having a muffin.”
I laugh. Stickman is new. It's a lot better than little bro.
“What's the occasion?” I ask him as we sit down.
He gives me a strange look. I probably shouldn't say anything. As Dad
says, Don't look a gift horse in the mouth. But I don't understand why he's
being so nice to me, after ignoring me for almost a month.
“Do I need an excuse to treat my little bro to a, um, tap water?”
“In my experience, yes.” On top of everything else, Robin earns like
zero pounds a week, and he's like Dad: He never spends it. We're not
exactly the kind of family that just decides to go to Starbucks.
“Then prepare for a new experience. I want to hear how everything's
going. Tell me: What's new at Deanwater?”
I shrug. “School is school.”
“Any new faces? How's Miss Jacobs?”
Miss Jacobs taught Robin math. She also taught him how to love. Okay,
I'm kidding. But … Miss Jacobs doesn't look like other math teachers.
She's six feet tall, and she has this amazing raven-black hair. She's pretty
fit. Robin was in her first-ever class, when she was straight out of teacher
training college, which I guess would make her twenty-two or something.
And, um, he was a big fan. Even now, asking me about her, he looks a little
misty-eyed.
“I told you, I don't have her this year.”
Robin shakes his head. “It's a cruel world.”
“There's this new girl in my class,” I say, before I think about what I'm
saying.
Robin raises an eyebrow. “Oh?”
“It doesn't matter,” I say quickly.
“It definitely does. Go on. What's her name?”
And against my better judgment, I tell him. “Evie.”
“Even?”
Well, I did kind of mumble. “Ee-vee.”
“Oh, cute,” Robin says. He takes a sip of his drink and makes this ifyou-know-what-I-mean face.
“Robin,” I say.
“It is cute,” he says. “I've never met an Evie before. Ee-vee. Nice.”
“I don't fancy her,” I tell him. “It's not like that.”
He spreads his arms, like Jesus at the Last Supper. “Little bro,” he says.
“Who said anything about fancying? I”—he draws out the I—“didn't
mention anything of the sort. No, little bro, you brought that up all on your
own.”
I scowl at him.
“I'm just saying.” He shrugs, then takes another sip of his drink, then
waits a beat. “I hope you and Evie are very happy together.”
Before he even finishes speaking, he braces himself for a punch on the
arm. I don't disappoint him.
“Anyway,” he says. “I have some news.”
“I knew it,” I say.
He breaks a big chunk of his muffin and crams it into his mouth. We
look at each other while he chews. I tap my wrist where my watch would be
—I've stopped wearing it, because it just looks silly now—as if to say Spit
it out then.
I get bored of waiting and take a sip of my water. Eventually, after like
thirty seconds, he swallows the muffin. He waits a beat before speaking.
“I'm moving out.”
I sputter and manage to spill water all down my front. “Shit,” I say.
Then I look at him. I want to say a thousand things—mostly things that, if I
said them in school, would get me immediate detention. I want to ask him
whether it's because of what happened with James and Louise. I want to ask
him how he could do this. I want to plead with him to stay, and I want to
tell him to get lost because we'll be just fine without him.
Instead I say, “How come?”
He sniffs. I can't tell if he's upset or bored or embarrassed. “It's time.
Mum and Dad have enough to worry about these days without me knocking
around.”
I look down at my lap. I know exactly what he means. And before I can
stop myself, I feel my shoulders shaking.
“Oh, bro … I didn't mean that.”
I look up at him. There are these bright spotlights on the ceiling, and the
tears streak the light across my eyes, like when you're driving through rain
and the streetlights become big orange brushstrokes.
“It's not like that,” he says. “It's just … I mean … with Mum's work
and everything …”
He stumbles, trying to deflect the blame onto anything but me. He
thinks I'm crying because I've just found out that I'm a burden to Mum and
Dad. But that's not the reason. I already know I'm a burden to Mum and
Dad; it doesn't take a genius to figure that one out.
I'm crying because I just lost the only person I can really talk to.
I'm crying because now I'm totally alone.
March 11
Dear Ana,
Today I saw Lindsay for the first time in over a month,
because she's been on holiday. It wasn't too bad. I've lost half
a pound, which is somehow enough to make me feel okay, but
not enough to freak Lindsay out. The perfect amount.
Even so, she decided to make up two new rules. As if I
don't have enough rules in my life already.
Rule One: the not-keeping-a-food-diary thing is now
permanent. Actually, I'm not as bothered about this as I
thought I'd be. At this point, I pretty much know how many
calories there are in everything anyway. And I hate to admit
it, but since I stopped writing everything down, I do seem to
spend less time worrying about it.
Rule Two: I have to start taking vitamins. Technically,
this isn't Lindsay's rule. It's from my nutritionist, Dr.
Roberts. I'm okay with this because he's given me regular
ones—not flavored or chewable or whatever. As long as it
doesn't seem like food and contains absolutely zero calories,
it's okay.
We spent most of my session talking about Lindsay's
holiday, which got me thinking about last summer—aka, the
time when you first decided to climb inside my head. Okay,
so I still don't have a clue why I ended up like this. But I do
know when it happened. The two-week period when my life
started to fall apart.
Robin called it the Last Great Hurrah. He'd decided it
wasn't cool to keep going on holiday with your family in
your twenties, but that he'd come one more time. He said it
like he was doing us a massive favor. I'm sure it was nothing
to do with the fact that he was totally broke.
We went to Venice and Verona for two weeks. We
arrived in the middle of a heat wave: It was 350C the day we
landed, and that was the coolest it got. Luckily, we weren't
camping—Dad decided that because it was Robin's last
holiday, we'd stay in hotels instead. On the downside, he also
decided to save two euros a day on the rental car by not
getting AC.
Naturally, because we're Howarths, we didn't let the
heat slow us down. During the daytime, we traipsed around
museums and churches and gardens. We went to Saint Mark's
Square and Juliet's balcony, and we saw an opera, which is
four hours of my life I'll never get back. (The opera was in
Verona's Roman amphitheater. Thankfully, it started at
sunset, or else I'm pretty sure we would have baked to
death.) At one point Robin said to me, I can't believe I chose
to come on this holiday.
Because it was so hot, none of us really felt like eating
much in the daytime, except for the odd ice cream. So, our
evening meal was pretty much the only thing we ate. And
going out to restaurants on holiday was kind of new for us
because we usually cooked our own meals at the campsite.
The only problem was, it was expensive, especially in
Venice. Robin didn't seem to notice. He kept ordering these
steaks that were, like, thirty euros, as well as a starter and
a pizza. And because it was the Last Great Hurrah, Dad
didn't say anything. But I saw him and Mum looking at each
other, like, Ouch, and then Mum would say, I think I'm going
to have a salad, and Dad would have some plain tomato pasta
or whatever.
And I didn't want to make things worse. So I had salad,
too. It wasn't so bad, actually—it turns out, if you don't
eat all day, you kind of go past hunger. I mean, I'd been
drinking Cokes and eating ice cream, so I wasn't exactly
starving. But still.
It's not like I immediately became an anorexic. When we
got home, I went back to having seconds every time we ate
and, you know, actually eating lunch. But I reckon Italy
planted a seed. Now I knew that I could not eat and still get
on with my life.
When school started again and Ram was off sick and Stu
was at football training most lunchtimes and I had to eat on
my own, I knew I could just … not do it. I've always been
kind of self-conscious about eating anyway (I mean, no one
likes eating on their own in public, right?). So I thought,
why put myself through it?
The answer's pretty obvious now. Not putting myself
through it meant giving you the chance to climb into my
head. It's a whole lot easier to stop eating than to stop not
eating. But I didn't know that at the time.
Robin's moving out
11
today. Me and Mum are helping.
He's renting a flat in Chorley: five minutes' walk from the workshop,
twenty minutes' drive from home. It's tiny. If he stretches out, Robin can
touch all four bedroom walls at once. (He shows me as soon as he arrives;
he seems weirdly happy about it.) There's no kitchen, just a row of cabinets
and a hotplate along one wall of the living room. There isn't even room for
a microwave, which is Robin's go-to method of cooking. He says he doesn't
need one.
It makes zero sense. His room at home is almost as big as this entire
flat. We've got a shed to store his mountain bike in—whereas here, he has
to put it in the hallway, right next to the sign that says NO BIKES OR
PRAMS.
“So, what do you think?” he asks me, as we traipse up the stairs for
about the fiftieth time. Robin's carrying two massive boxes; I can only
manage a tote bag full of clothes.
“I don't get it,” I tell him honestly.
He laughs. “One day you'll understand.”
That pisses me off because it's super-patronizing. Like when Robin tells
Mum he never wants kids, and she says You'll change your mind someday.
He gets mad at that. But apparently, it's okay for him to do it.
There is an upside to all this, though. I'm getting Robin's room, which
means I'll finally have room to put all my posters up. There are two I've
wanted up for ages. One is a guide to all the raptors—that means birds of
prey—you can see in Europe. I got it for my birthday last year. The other is
a Peters projection world map. Regular world maps are Mercator
projections. They have straight longitude lines, but all the countries and
islands are stretched to fit on a flat surface, so nothing's the right size,
especially if it's near the poles. For example, Greenland is about ten times
its actual size on a Mercator. Peters projections show all the countries to
scale. In my opinion, they are much better maps, as long as you aren't using
them to navigate with.
On the whole, though, I'd probably still rather have Robin. Even if he is
a pain in the ass sometimes.
“Is that it?” Mum says, as we put the final boxes down in the living
room.
“That's it,” Robin says.
“Phew,” says Mum. “Oh, I almost forgot! Wait here.” She zooms back
out of the door.
Dad isn't here. For some reason, he picked today as the day to finally
finish building his rock garden, which basically means wheelbarrowing the
three tons of rock that have been sitting in our driveway for six months
along the side of the house and dumping them next to the pond. I'm not
sure why he's picked today to do this. Maybe he's upset Robin's leaving,
too, and wanted an excuse not to come. But that's not really like Dad. I
thought Mum would be furious about it, but if she is, she's hiding it well.
Me and Robin stand in the living room, waiting for Mum. It feels
awkward, even though Robin's basically the only person I never feel
awkward around. He's opened a box of kitchen stuff—cutlery, pans—and
now we're both staring at it.
He fishes out a honey dipper and waggles it at me. “Oh, good, I'm glad
Mum packed this. I've been worrying about how I'll dispense honey in my
new home.”
I laugh.
“Hey,” he says, pointing at me with the dipper. “How's your you-knowwhat?”
I shrug. What do I even say to that? He's moving out, and he's asking
me about my stupid cache. “It's fine,” I mutter.
“Any good visitors lately?”
“Nah.”
That isn't exactly true. The other day, there was a really weird note in
my logbook. It just said:
Sorry I was a doofus to you.
Ever since I found it, I've been racking my brains about who it's from
and what it means. Until twenty seconds ago, I thought it might have been
from Robin. But either he's a much better actor than I realized, or it wasn't
him.
It could be someone from school, but there are only three people at
school who owe me an apology: Darren, Shinji, and Evie. I can rule out the
first two right off the bat: The chances of Darren or Shinji ever apologizing
for anything are zilch. It's more likely that the Sahara will freeze over
tomorrow.
That leaves Evie. I mean, I guess it could be her. She was acting pretty
strange in English the other day. But she doesn't exactly seem like the type
to apologize. Or the type to use the word doofus.
It could be from a stranger. Maybe someone mistook my cache for
someone else's. Or maybe they were just messing about, trying to freak me
out.
Robin shakes his head. “That one on Station Road is still bugging me.
‘Itsy bitsy.' It's got to be the drainpipe, right?”
I shrug. “I think so.”
Mum comes back carrying a present, wrapped in some of Dad's
carefully recycled Christmas wrapping paper.
“What's this?”
“A little housewarming gift.” She hands it to Robin.
Robin carefully unwraps a cardboard box, then removes the lid. Inside
is a loaf of bread, a candle, and a bottle of wine. Robin looks confused. I'm
thinking Mum's gone loopy and really should have asked me what Robin's
into if this is the best she could come up with.
Mum catches Robin's face and laughs. “They're traditional,” she
explains. “Bread so you're never hungry, wine so you're never thirsty, and a
candle so your home is always filled with light.”
“Er, thanks, Mum,” Robin says. He looks at me and rolls his eyes.
I laugh.
“That's the last time I get you a present, Robin,” Mum says. Then she
puts on her Serious Mum face. “Don't leave the candle unattended, please.
And, for God's sake, share that bottle of wine with someone. Ffion, for
instance. Now, who wants a cup of tea?”
“Please,” Robin says.
“I'm fine,” I say. Like she was expecting any other answer. I turn to
Robin. “Who's Ffion?”
Robin waves a hand. “She's nobody.”
“I hope you don't tell her that,” says Mum.
“All right, fine,” Robin says. He turns to me. “She's my Evie.”
April 4
Dear Ana,
I'm sitting in the room that was Robin's room seven days
ago. Dad said I should move in straightaway—apparently, it
will “help us adjust.” But so far, we've only moved my bed
and my desk and my chest of drawers. There are no books or
posters or anything. It's kind of bare and kind of sad.
Today, I read this thing online about Zeno's Paradox,
which is an example of what Dad calls a thought experiment.
Say you have a race between a tortoise and a hare, and the
hare is ten times as fast, but you give the tortoise a
hundred-meter head start. By the time the hare has run
those hundred meters, the tortoise has shuffled ten meters
forward. And once the hare has covered those ten meters,
the tortoise has moved another meter ahead. If you keep
breaking it down, the hare never actually overtakes the
tortoise. Even though it's ten times as fast.
Zeno has been screwing with my head all day. Of course,
it doesn't actually work like that. Trust me, when my dad
drives down the motorway at sixty miles per hour, people
overtake him all the time. But the point is, when you look
at a snapshot, nothing really makes sense.
At least, I think that's what the point is.
It reminds me of this story that Mr. Sumner, my
primary school principal, used to tell at the end of assembly.
(Mr. Sumner told a story every day, but he only knew about
ten, so we got to know each one pretty well.) It goes like
this: Once, a group of travelers stop near a village. They're
hungry, but they don't have any food with them, so they fill
a huge cauldron with river water and put a big stone in the
bottom. A passing villager asks them what they're doing.
“We're making stone soup,” they say. “It's almost ready—
but we could do with a little bit of carrot to make it extratasty.” So he goes and brings them some carrots and heads
on his way. Then another villager comes. This time they say,
“A few herbs would really help bring out the flavor.” And so
on. Each villager who comes past brings them a little
something—a handful of salt, some beans, a chicken carcass
—until, eventually, the travelers really do have a nourishing,
delicious soup, which they share with all the villagers.
Anorexia is the same thing in reverse. It's Zeno's
Paradox in super-slow motion. You keep taking stuff away:
food. Friends. Family. Until one day you realize there's
nothing left. The hare's overtaken the tortoise. The soup is
just water.
Okay, I'm not sure that made any sense at all. It's, like,
00:36 now. I should probably go to bed. I wish Robin were here.
“We're going to
12
the zoo,” Ram announces triumphantly. He shrugs
his backpack off and pulls out his lunchbox.
“What, right now?”
“That's dead funny, Stu. You're a regular comedian,” says Ram.
Stu puffs out his cheeks and nods. “I try.”
“It's a good idea, isn't it?” Ram carries on. “I want to see the lion
feeding. I've heard they catapult a goat over the fence.”
“Sounds idyllic. Anyway, I'm pretty sure going to the zoo was Max's
—”
“May ninth. You better both be free.”
Stu leans back in his chair and shrugs. “I'll have to check my diary.”
“Move over, loser.”
The voice comes from behind me. I watch Ram's and Stu's eyes bulge
in unison. I don't move because I don't need to: There's loads of room.
“C'mon, I ain't got all day.”
I shuffle my chair about a quarter of an inch to the right, and Evie sits
down, satisfied. I'm thinking it was less about the room and more about
making me move for her.
We all bring a packed lunch, and normally, we eat in the playground.
Sort of to avoid situations like this. But today, it's raining like crazy—like
Thor's piss is how Dad put it this morning. So we're all crammed into the
Big Hall.
I say crammed, but whenever we sit inside, there's almost always an
empty seat next to me. More than 850 students in one assembly hall, and
somehow, there's still plenty of room for avoiding Max. Today, I watched
three separate people spot the empty seat, look at me, then find some way
of sardining themselves onto another table.
Evie digs into her satchel and pulls out her lunchbox. As soon she takes
the lid off, Ram leans in. “What you got there?” he asks. He tries to say it
casually, like he's asking about the weather or if we have math today. But
it's pretty obvious why he's asking.
If it wasn't for Ram's appetite, I'm not sure our friendship would've
made it through the past six months. He's a bottomless pit; he can put away
anything you give him and more. I still eat my lunch every day, but the
extra snacks I bring to school—the snacks Mum and Dad and Lindsay think
(or at least hope) I'm eating? They all go to Ram. At this point, I'm
basically bribing him to be my friend with chips and chocolate bars.
But apparently, one supplier isn't enough.
“My lunch,” Evie says. She looks him dead in the eye, then adds, “For
me.”
I snort. Evie may be a fruitcake, but she can be pretty funny.
“That a jam sandwich?” Ram says, as Evie unwraps a foil parcel, like an
archaeologist unwrapping a mummy.
Evie looks at him like she might slap him. Eventually, she sighs and
nods.
“And Mini Cheddars,” Ram adds. “Nice.”
“Nothing gets past you,” Evie says.
Me and Stu look at each other, trying not to laugh.
Evie pulls her phone and a book out of her bag, and places them both
next to her lunchbox.
“And I thought you were here for the scintillating conversation,” says
Stu.
Stu hates it when people use their phones in front of him. When I first
met him, I couldn't work it out. This is a guy who carries a phone,
headphones, a smart watch, and at least one Nintendo console with him at
all times. But then I went to his house. Stu's family is Quaker, which means
they're the nicest people on earth and put a lot of emphasis on face-to-face
interaction. He's allowed to use all the technology he wants, as long as it
never gets in the way of a conversation. I've never seen him even glance at
his phone without asking the permission of everyone he's with first.
Evie doesn't clock Stu's comment. Her phone's in her lap, and she's
busy sending a long series of emoji to someone or other.
Ram looks nervous. “You know they'll take it off you if they see it,
right?”
“I know,” replies Evie, cool as cucumber dip.
She opens the book and slots her phone into a deep hole cut into the
pages. She turns down the brightness—so it doesn't catch your eye, I guess
—and then she resumes what seems to be her favorite activity: scrolling.
“Niiice,” says Ram.
Stu scowls. If he was unhappy about the phone thing, I can't even
imagine how he feels about the book. I remember him laying into me once
for turning down the corner of a page to mark my place. (I've said it before
and I'll say it again: Stu's a total nerd, and it's a bloody good thing he can
play football.)
Ram, Stu, and I drift back to the conversation we were having before
Evie arrived.
“How many people are coming?” I ask.
Ram twitches his nose for a moment. “Just you guys,” he says quietly.
“Hold on a second,” Stu says. “I thought you were having some huge
party. The biggest social event of the year, you said.”
“Yeah, well, I changed my mind, didn't I?” Ram barks.
“All right, I was only asking,” Stu says.
I get the feeling there's something Ram isn't telling us. But I'm also
getting the feeling he doesn't particularly want to tell us.
“What's all this then?” Evie asks, without looking up from her book,
aka her phone.
“Er … my birthday party,” Ram says. When she doesn't reply, he adds,
“We're going to the zoo.”
“Sounds shit,” Evie says.
“She's such a charmer,” Stu says. He plucks a cherry tomato from his
lunchbox and pops it into his mouth.
“Aren't you going to invite me?” Evie asks. To be clear, she still hasn't
looked up from her phone. Stu's now staring at her, like, with his mouth
hanging open slightly. I can see some tomato seeds. It's pretty gross.
“Am I?” asks Ram.
“I wouldn't,” Stu mutters.
“There's no need to be rude,” Evie says. “Dickhead.”
Stu doesn't even know how to respond to that. He looks at both of us, as
if to say, Am I hearing this correctly?
“If it sounds shit, why do you want to come?” Ram asks.
“Because Max will be there, of course. I luuuurve him, don't I, Max?”
She flutters her eyelids at me, then bursts out laughing.
“Um,” I say. What the hell am I supposed to say to that?
“Fair enough,” Ram says. “I tell you what: You can come to my party if
you give me those Mini Cheddars.”
“Deal,” Evie says. She picks the bag up by the corner and tosses it at
Ram. “I don't even like them.”
“Well, now I'm really looking forward to this party,” Stu says, slumping
his chin on his hands.
“Anyway,” Evie says, closing the book with her phone inside, putting it
on top of her lunchbox. “I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got places to be.
By the way, Ram, you should share those with Max.” She's pointing at the
Mini Cheddars. “He's looking pretty skinny.”
She laughs again, then picks up her rucksack, and runs off.
“What was that about?” says Ram, opening the Mini Cheddars and
offering them to me and Stu.
I shake my head. I feel as though my cheeks could melt a block of steel
right now. “Beats me.”
April 9
Dear Ana,
I nearly lost it with Mum tonight. She's on this diet where
she basically only eats at dinnertime. For breakfast and
lunch, she has juice or soup. Okay, so I'm not exactly
qualified to lecture people on healthy eating, but it doesn't
sound healthy. At least it's better than last year, when she
did that one where she only ate raw foods.
Anyway, this evening she came home complaining about
how hungry she was. Dad was like, “Have a snack then,” and
Mum replied, “It's not that easy.” Then she turned to me
and added. “Max knows what it's like. Don't you, love?”
Um, no I don't.
It's not Mum's fault, but what she said kind of made me
want to scream. It happens all the time. Whenever someone
talks about anorexia in a magazine or on TV, they basically
treat it like a really strict diet. That's like treating the
Pacific Ocean as if it were a really big paddling pool. And then
telling someone who's spent the last six months in a
submarine that you know exactly how they feel.
I get that diets suck, and that loads of people—
especially women—are under pressure to lose weight. But
it's totally, totally different. You know why? Because when
you're on a diet, there's an end point. Because when you're
on a diet, you want people to notice. Because when you're on
a diet, you don't have some psycho called Ana whispering in
your ear 24/7.
Sorry, Ana. But it's true.
I just heard
13
it. The first one this year. I look at my phone to doublecheck the date.
April 11.
Too early. I must have made a mistake.
But then I hear it again.
Wow.
April 11.
Usually, the first time anyone in the whole of England hears a cuckoo is
about April 10, in either Devon or Cornwall. They don't get up here until at
least the twentieth. But they're getting earlier and earlier.
Cuckoos are the coolest and weirdest—and evilest—birds in the world.
Instead of raising their own chicks, they lay eggs in other birds' nest, so
those birds do all the hard work for them. And then, when a cuckoo chick
hatches, it pushes all the other eggs out of the nest so it gets all the food.
Evil, right?
You'd think the bird raising the chick would notice. All I can say is, the
phrase bird-brained exists for a reason. But it definitely, definitely doesn't
apply to cuckoos.
A cuckoo call is slap-in-the-face obvious, once you know what you're
looking for. I mean listening for. You can't miss it. It sounds—well, it
sounds like someone saying cuckoo. It's only the males you hear. The
females, who do all the sneaky egg-laying, tend to keep quiet. (As Dad puts
it: I wonder why.)
I head to the lake. That weird message I got in my cache—Sorry I was a
doofus to you—is still bugging me. I want to check if any other caches
nearby have had anything similar.
But at the cache under the bench, it's all the usual stuff: Nice work!
TFTC, et cetera. I can't help noticing that this cache gets way more visitors
than mine, though. For example, seven people have visited since April 1.
I'm lucky to get two a week.
It's like your geocache is radiating the same loser aura as you.
Impressive.
Just as I'm putting the cache back, someone very close behind me
shouts, “What are you up to, Max?”
Super-loud, right in my ear.
A girl's voice.
Naturally, I smack my head on the bench in surprise. And then, as I
crawl out from underneath it, I nearly lose my trousers.
I got this pair only a month ago, and they're already getting loose.
Once I'm free, I look up. And guess who I see standing over me?
“Looking for a bag of chips, Max? Maybe a Snickers?”
“No,” I shoot back, a hot, angry word that spills from my mouth like a
flame, even though I know she's not really asking.
She shakes her head at me. “I'm joking, dickhead. You need to chill
out.” She sniffs thoughtfully. “Although, you really could use a meal or
two. So, what are you doing under a park bench?”
“Nothing,” I reply. When I first went to high school, Robin taught me
his one golden rule: Deny everything they can't prove. According to Robin,
this rule was what got him through secondary school—and I have to say,
it's worked pretty well for me so far. “What are you doing here, anyway?” I
ask, knocking the ball back into her court.
Evie crosses her arms and gives me a no-bullshit look. The kind of look
cops give in movies, right before the perp breaks down and tells them
everything. “Pretty sure I asked first.”
I stick to the script. “I'm not doing anything.”
“Yeah, right,” Evie says with an eye roll.
Evie's wearing cutoff jeans, purple Converse, and a white T-shirt that
says BLAME IT ON THE DISCO in big black letters across the chest. Her
rabbit-brown hair is tied up, but her bangs hang down over her eyes. It must
be super-annoying.
I have no idea what to do next. All the advice I've read about muggles
says not to get spotted; it doesn't tell you what happens when you do.
Maybe I'm supposed to convert her, to bring her into the geocaching
community. Maybe I'm supposed to move the cache to a new location and
fess up online.
Or maybe it's never happened before. Maybe there's no advice
because no one has ever been stupid enough to get into this situation.
I realize I'm still crouched on all fours like Gollum or something. I
jump up and dust the dirt off my knees.
Evie digs into her back pocket and pulls out a box of Nerds. Who eats
Nerds anymore? She opens the box and lifts it to her mouth, ready to pour,
then stops. “I'm still waiting for an answer.”
Maybe the Robin Howarth technique isn't foolproof after all.
I point at the bench. “There's a geocache under there.”
“A what?”
“A geocache. It's a little box you have to try and find.”
She scrunches up her face. “Why?”
“For fun. Look.” I pull out my phone. “You have this app, which gives
you the location. And when you find one, you write in the logbook.”
“That sounds stupid,” Evie says.
I shrug. “Suit yourself.” Evie seems to think everything's stupid.
She slumps down on the bench and pulls out her phone. For a moment, I
think she's going to give it a go—geocaching, I mean. But instead, she
starts scrolling through photos, like I'm not even there. I stand there for a
bit, hoping maybe the ground will open up and swallow me. Or her.
She thinks you're a loser. And she's right.
I can't decide whether to leg it, or to play it cool and stroll off casually.
On the one hand, I don't want her telling people that I'm the kind of total
weirdo who runs off in the middle of a conversation. On the other, I'm
pretty sure they already know. Plus, it's not like she actually has anyone to
tell. She's as much of a loner as I am. No, wait, she's more of a loner—at
least I've got Ram and Stu.
I turn to go.
“So, what's the deal with Deanwater?”
I turn back to her. Naturally, she hasn't looked up from her phone or
anything. I frown, not that she can see me frowning. “What do you mean?”
“Everyone's so uptight. At my old school, we did whatever we wanted.”
Like telling people you love them and calling them dickheads and
playing with your phone the whole time? That's what I want to say because,
right now, Evie's really pissing me off. “So why did you move?” I ask her.
That makes her look up. She looks at me like I've punched her on the
nose.
“I didn't want to, idiot. They made me move.”
“How come? And who's they?”
“God, you ask stupid questions,” she says, shaking her head at me. “I
was kicked out.”
“Oh,” I say. I want to ask why, but I'm not sure if I should. I never am
with Evie.
She gives me another psycho grin. It's the sort of grin the bad guy in a
film pulls when he's captured the good guy and he's explaining his evil
genius plan before he shoots him. Evie's grin gives me major creeps.
“Why?” I can't help it. It just comes out, somewhere between a croak
and a whisper. A crisper?
Evie doesn't flinch. “Because Amelia Jones is a bloody rat, that's why.”
Of course, this just opens up ten more questions. Who is Amelia Jones?
What was she squealing on Evie about? Had Evie actually done anything
wrong? I feel like I've regressed to that toddler stage when you ask
questions constantly. Where are we going? The supermarket. Why are we
going to the supermarket? Because we need milk. Why do we need milk?
Because we put it in our tea. Why do we put it in our tea?
Et cetera.
“I wish that bird would shut up,” she mutters.
She means the cuckoo. She has a point, I guess. It's pretty loud. It can't
be more than a couple of trees away. I consider telling her that she should
be happy: Hearing a cuckoo on April 11 is kind of amazing. But I have a
hunch she won't take that very well.
She jumps up off the bench. “Do you like Nerds?” she says, thrusting
the box in my direction. Somehow, Evie even manages to handle a box of
Nerds like it's a lethal weapon. I guess for me, it kind of is.
“No thanks,” I murmur.
“Of course you don't,” she says. “Anyway, I've downloaded the app.”
She turns her phone so I can see. It's the home screen of the geocaching
app. That means she must have already set up an account. “What happens
next?”
I show her the one under the bench first. I take out the logbook and the
pencil, show her all the messages people have left. She tells me it's the
lamest thing I've ever seen.
“I can't believe you waste your time doing this,” she says.
I shift from foot to foot, like Sonic the Hedgehog. What do I say to that?
It's not like you have anything better to do, is it?
Harsh, but fair.
Then I have an idea.
“Yeah, this one's pretty lame. But this one”—I hand my phone to her
—“this one's super-cool. Amazing, actually. I'm not sure you're ready to
see it.”
She takes my phone and stares at it for, like, fifteen seconds. Like she's
paused due to a bad connection. Meanwhile, my mind is racing with ideas
of how she's going to react. Is she going to smash my phone into the
ground? Is she going to cry? Is she going to punch me?
Nope.
She looks up at me for a second. I swear her eyes change color, like
traffic lights. A flash of green. A flicker of amber. A blaze of red.
But for Evie, red doesn't mean stop. Evie doesn't live by the rules of
normal human beings.
“I'm ready,” she says, all cocky. “But there's one thing you should
know.”
“What?” I ask.
Then she does it again. Mouths three words that make zero sense, but
even so, make my spine feel like it's being tickled from the inside.
I love you.
And before I can react, she's gone. She's legged it. With my phone. I run
after her, but there are thick gorse bushes all around the lake: If you want to
disappear, it's pretty easy. And apparently, I'm not the only person around
here who's into that.
Evie's like quantum mechanics, or relatively. Occasionally, you think
you've got your head around her. But you're always wrong.
I do know one thing, though.
I know where she's going.
She's so fast she must actually be a witch. She must be able to fly or
teleport or … something. I know the Common like it's my bedroom, and I
know exactly where I'm going. Plus, I'm the second-fastest runner in our
year.
Or at least, the second-fastest boy.
She beats me there. And you know what? She doesn't even seem tired.
I, on the other hand, am gasping. Like, I literally can't speak for a good
thirty seconds. I double over, with my hands braced on my knees, breathing
like Darth Vader on sports day.
She looks at me, amused.
“What … was that … all … about?” I eventually manage.
She shrugs. “It's a race, isn't it?”
I give up trying to stand and sit down on the pavement. In the gutter. I
can feel sweat running down my back and pooling in my ass crack. Nice.
“Not really,” I tell her.
“Oh,” she says.
“Can I have my phone back?” I ask.
“Oh yeah,” she says. “Sorry.”
Did she just apologize to me? I didn't think she even knew the word
sorry.
“What about the bit …” I trail off.
“What bit?” she says, tilting her head like a dog.
The bit where you told me you loved me. But I can't ask that: It sounds
properly mental.
“Never mind,” I tell her.
“O-kay,” she says slowly. “Anyway, you were right.”
“I was? About what?”
“About this cache. It's pretty cool.”
“You mean …”
No way. There's no way she's found it already. The other week, Robin
and I were here for forty-five minutes. I shake my head.
She holds up a little disc of metal about the size of a bottle cap. No wait,
bigger. The wheel on a wheelie suitcase. “Tell me, Max. What does it feel
like to be beaten by a girl?”
I guess she's figured out that I've never found this cache before.
“It's not … I've just …”
“Forgotten how to speak?” Evie suggests.
She twists the disc, so it springs into two pieces, and offers them to me
like communion wafers. I take them, turn them over in my hands. One is a
flat disc of metal with a threaded edge. Nothing special. But inside the
other, there's a thin ticker tape of paper, coiled like a snail's shell, and
underneath that, a single pencil lead slotted into a groove in the metal. It's
amazing. It's as intricate and precise as a pocket watch.
“Woah,” I say.
“Clever, huh?” Evie says.
“Where was it?”
She shows me. It was set into the middle of a drain cover—specifically,
a drain cover with eight spokes radiating from its center, like spiders' legs.
Drains. Spiders. Itsy Bitsy. I look up. We're standing literally opposite the
front door of Starbucks, exactly where it's tagged. Geocaching has a habit
of making you feel really, really stupid sometimes.
“Can I ask you a question?” I blurt. I want to ask it before my brain—or
Ana, or both—tells me not to.
“Mmm,” Evie says, nodding her head.
“How come you, er … Why did you …”
Evie smirks. “Spit it out, Max.”
“What did you mouth to me before? And the other day?”
“Elephant juice,” she replies cheerily.
“Huh?”
“Look at my lips.” She says it again: “Ell-ee-fant-joos.”
Then I understand; it looks like I love you.
“That's what you were saying?”
She nods.
“Um, why?”
“It's funny.”
“Okay,” I say quietly.
Long pause.
Wait a minute. Did you actually, seriously think she loved you?
Shut up, Ana.
HA! This is priceless! Even your parents don't love you, Max. Come
on.
But how come she …
“You know what?” Evie says, snapping me out of my argument with
Ana. I guess I'm grateful for that at least.
“What?” I say. I'm thinking, what's she going to say now? Maybe she's
about to tell me I'm looking awfully chubby today, or that she snuck into
my house this morning and murdered my parents. My stomach feels like it
weighs about three tons.
“You're pretty cool, Max Howarth.”
April 26
Dear Ana,
I try not to think about how things were before because it
makes me feel way too guilty. Not long ago, we were a
totally normal family. We went for walks. We had people
over for BBQs. I'm not saying it was perfect or anything, I
mean, what family is perfect? We argued all the time.
Especially with Robin. Until recently, Robin was kind of a
pain in the ass. He used to lock himself in his room for
hours, playing heavy metal at, like, 120 decibels, and ignoring
Mum when she hammered on the door. And/or he used to go
mountain biking in the middle of the night and not tell Mum
and Dad, so they pretty much freaked out when they realized
he wasn't there.
I was a pain, too—but in different ways. Like when I
bought some sketchy PC games from eBay and managed to
wipe the hard drive of every computer in the house. Or when
Stu was trying to teach me and Ram how to not suck at
football, and we were practicing keepy-uppies in the back
garden, and Ram booted the ball into Dad's greenhouse and
smashed three windows.
But it was all normal stuff. My parents didn't have to
keep making excuses for why they couldn't have people over
for dinner. When we argued, they didn't spend the next two
days worrying about whether I would binge or cut my arms
or worse. And I didn't wake up every morning wondering
whether today would be the day I finally end up in the
hospital.
When you're anorexic, there is no normal. Ever. It's like
you've dropped some dye into a swimming pool: It slowly
spreads through the water, turning everything the same
color. Now Mum can't go to the post office without seeing a
flyer for karate classes at the leisure center and thinking
about how I couldn't do them even if I wanted to because my
bones might break. Dad can't do the washing without
noticing that I haven't bought any new clothes in a year, and
knowing why: 1) because all my old ones still fit; and 2)
because the thought of going into a shop and trying on
clothes makes me want to dig a tunnel a thousand feet
under the ground and never ever come out.
Okay, so you're only in my head. But everyone I know
has to deal with you, too. Day in, day out. And they didn't
sign up for any of this. If I were them, I would have shoved
me and you in a clinic somewhere a long, long time ago.
I've never seen
14
this many people in one place before. It's like a royal
wedding or something. But with penguins. We're right by the front: me,
Stu, Ram, and Evie. Ram's dad drove us here, although he didn't actually
come into the zoo; he's shopping at the outlet village instead. Just the
thought of spending all day shopping—looking at yourself in the mirror,
taking clothes on and off—makes me shudder.
“How much longer?” Stu asks.
I pull my watch out of my pocket—that's where I keep it now—and
take a look. “Five minutes.”
The penguin enclosure is a big peanut-shaped pool surrounded by flat
rocks. There's a little jetty that sticks out over the water in the middle, for
the penguins to dive off. Ten minutes ago, it was covered in snoozing
Humboldt penguins—but now they're all up and chattering, looking around
for the keeper. I guess they know what's up.
“I hope this is better than the lion,” Ram grumbles.
The lion feeding didn't quite live up to Ram's expectations. There was
no catapult and no goat. Instead, the keeper climbed a tower and threw a leg
of mutton over the fence. The lion grabbed it and took it right to the back of
the enclosure, behind the trees, out of sight. That was it. (Ram's review:
This is bullshit.)
“Different kettle of fish,” Stu says, nodding wisely. Then he adds, “If
you'll excuse the pun.”
“You're as bad as my dad,” I tell him.
Eventually, a woman steps over the barrier a couple of yards along from
us. Penguins shuffle toward her like happy zombies. She's wearing a green
sweater and carrying a bucket of fish and a megaphone.
“Welcome to Chester Zoo, everyone. Are you ready to feed some
penguins?” She has one of those singsong, ultra-happy voices. Like her
vocal cords have been dipped in sherbet.
“Yaaaaaay!” everyone cheers. Well, everyone except us—because we're
all busy. Evie is texting someone, while Stu stares at her with his judgiest
judgy face. Meanwhile, Ram is trying to impress the zookeeper. He has his
arms crossed over his chest, and he's standing at a forty-five-degree angle
to her. He once told me that this was his signature move. In Ram's head, he
looks like Rambo. In everyone else's, he's more like the boss from The
Office.
Also, the zookeeper is now standing ten yards away, in front of several
hundred people, and, um, definitely isn't looking at Ram.
And me? Call me crazy, but I'm actually looking at the penguins.
There's this one who's doing laps: hopping down the jetty, diving in,
zooming to the edge of the pool, then doing a very ungainly climb out. I
don't know whether he (or she*) normally does this or if it's an excited
feeding-time thing. Like a dog chasing its tail.
“Humboldt penguins can swim at twenty miles per hour,” I say, to no
one in particular.
“Packham strikes again!” says Stu, and we all laugh. Even Evie laughs.
They came up with this nickname two hours ago, in the tropical house,
when I was telling him how there's no real difference between frogs and
toads. You're like that nature guy off the telly, Stu told me. I wasn't sure
what he was talking about for a second, but Evie immediately replied, Chris
Packham! Yeah, he really is. Max, you should be a zookeeper or something.
That made me feel good because being a zookeeper would be amazing.
I've noticed it today: I feel confident talking about stuff like this. Today,
I've actually spoken up in conversations for the first time in weeks. I've
started conversations. I guess it's because it's not subjective. No one's
asking for my opinion on whether spiders are insects or not. No one's
asking me to express my feelings. Have you ever noticed that 99 percent of
the conversations you have are about your feelings? How are you? What do
you want to do today? I'm terrible at answering questions like that.
But facts? I can do facts. Especially facts about frogs and toads and
spiders and penguins. I even think I could do what the penguin woman is
doing right now: stand up in front of a bunch of people and talk facts. As
long as it's just facts.
“Big deal,” Ram says, breaking my train of thought. “My dad does
ninety on the motorway sometimes.”
“Then he should slow down,” Stu says seriously. Sometimes, it feels
like Stu was born forty.
“Can anyone tell me where Humboldt penguins come from?” says the
woman. About fifty hands go up. Another fifty people shout out answers.
South Africa! Japan! Barnsley!
She walks over to a little girl who's shorter than the fence. Her dad is
holding her up so she can see.
The woman angles the megaphone so the girl can talk through it. But
she gets shy and starts crying.
She moves the megaphone away, leans toward the girl, and whispers in
her ear. And you can see the girl's face light up. The transformation's kind
of amazing. One minute, this girl is bawling; the next, it's like someone told
her she can move into Disneyland, permanently.
And that's the bit I couldn't do. The touchy-feely bit. The bit where you
have to tell someone it's okay and make a joke, or whatever she just did.
I guess I should stick to my get-a-PhD-and-become-a-zoologist plan.
“Dimple here knows the right answer,” the zookeeper says, walking
back out across the rocks. “Humboldt penguins are from South America.
They live on the beach in Chile and Peru. I'm pretty jealous of them, to be
honest!”
“Bet you knew that,” Evie whispers to me.
I did—well, the South America bit, anyway. But how do you say yes
without sounding like a total know-it-all? I lower my head. I can feel my
cheeks glowing neon.
See what I mean? As soon as it's anything other than facts, I'm lost.
“Now, can anyone tell me what a Humboldt penguin's favorite food is?”
Evie jabs me in the ribs. Which hurts a lot, when your ribs are the tiniest
fraction of an inch below your skin.
“Put your hand up.”
I shake my head.
“C'mon, Max. I know you know the answer.”
“It doesn't matter,” I say out of the corner of my mouth.
She puts her hand up and shouts, “We know!”
I turn on her and hiss, “What are you doing?” I grab her arm, pull it
down. She instinctively pulls away from me and whacks it on the fence.
“Ow!” she shouts.
And her face drops.
Like she's thinking, Wow.
Like she can see the psycho in my eyes.
Like she's terrified of me.
“All right,” says the keeper. “A lot of enthusiasm from over there.” She
points at us, takes a few steps in our direction. “What's the answer, guys?”
I freeze. My limbs turn liquid. My stomach is churning like a washing
machine. Everything slows down, and the baBOOM-baBOOM of my
heartbeat drowns out the babble of the crowd.
It's Ram who steps in. “Um, fish fingers?” Right after he says it, he
glances at me and winks. I'm pretty sure no one else sees it.
And just like that, the tension breaks. Everyone's laughing. The world
returns to normal speed.
“Not quite,” says the zookeeper, with a patient smile. An I've-heardthat-one-approximately-376-times smile.
Evie turns to Ram. “Good one, dickhead. Packham totally knew the
answer.”
“Herring,” I say under my breath. “Probably other stuff, too.”
“In the wild, these guys eat mostly anchovies, herring, and smelt,” the
keeper says into her megaphone, like she's my backup singer.
Evie jabs Ram in the ribs this time. “See?”
“Whatever,” Ram says.
“I think our friend simply wanted to be noticed,” Stu says, draping an
arm around Ram's shoulders. Ram, annoyed, shrugs it off. Evie and Stu
burst out laughing.
We listen to the keeper for a while. She's now explaining how penguins
feed their young.
“Little penguins can't chew their own food, so their mum and dad do it
for them, then regurgitate the liquid.” About two hundred kids make an
ewww noise at once. “It's the penguin equivalent of baby food!”
Revelation: Talking about animal biology can make me feel faint, too, if
it's all about how animals throw up. I brace myself against the fence and try
to tune her out.
My mind keeps whirring, though. I think about how much easier my life
would be if throwing up was an ordinary part of life. Something you just
did. Then I realize, Wait a minute. I'm actually, literally feeling jealous of a
penguin. BECAUSE THEY GET TO THROW UP!
The feeding itself is great. The penguins huddle around the keeper,
squawking impatiently at her. She throws fish into the water and they do
big, looping dives, to catch the fish from below. It's like Cirque du Soleil or
something.
When it's over, Ram sniffs the air. “That was cool. Better than the lion.”
“What next, birthday boy?” asks Evie.
Ram shrugs.
“We could go to the bat house,” I say quietly. Then I do an immediate
or-whatever shrug. I can't believe I actually expressed an opinion, just like
that, without anyone asking me. “I mean, if you guys want.”
Ram raises an eyebrow. “Is it cool?” Ram treats cool like this absolute
quality: Everything in the world is either cool or not cool. There's no
middle ground.
“I think so,” I answer.
He clicks his fingers, and points at me. “Packham, lead the way.”
I want to go to the bat house for two reasons:
1. Bats are awesome.
2. It's basically pitch-black.
You go through an airlock, with sheets of plastic hanging down to stop
the bats from getting out, and walk into a giant cave as high and wide as a
football stadium, as dark as the woods on a new moon. There are bats
everywhere: hanging from wires, circling the roof. You can see them when
you look up, because there are little pinpricks of light, like stars I guess. But
at eye level, you can't really see anything.
Here's the thing: I'm never not thinking about people looking at my
body. Even when I'm just with my parents. Even when I'm totally alone. It
starts with Ana asking a question, like,
Hey, remember that bottle of water you drank at lunchtime?
And it's like a snowball at the top of a hill: Once it's started, I can't stop
it. I can't shut her up.
It makes your belly stick out. You look totally bloated—like Santa
Claus. Someone's probably looking at you, right now, and thinking,
What a lard-ass.
That's why hanging out in pitch-black caves seems like a pretty good
idea. Maybe I should become a troglodyte.
“Cooooooool!” Evie says as we shuffle inside.
There's a single walkway that loops through the cave. There are tons of
people, but you can only see them when they are right in front of you. A
slightly darker patch in the inky blackness.
“Yeah,” agrees Ram. “Turns out this was a pretty good idea, Packham.
Though it does smell a bit.”
“You get used to it,” I tell him. Then play it back to myself. Oh God.
Cringe cringe cringe. I managed to make it sound like I spend every
weekend in a bat cave. Covered in bat poo.
“Um, if you say so.”
“Tell us about the bats, Packham,” says Evie.
I shrug, like, What do you want to know? Then I remember that no one
can see me. “Um, there are two types of bats in here. The big ones up there
are fruit bats, from Madagascar.”
“So they don't drink your blood?” Ram asks. He sounds really
disappointed.
“That's vampire bats. And they don't actually drink people's blood, you
know.”
“Lame,” Ram says. Then he shrieks. “Oh my God! I swear that one
almost hit me.”
“They won't hit you,” I tell him. “The little ones that are flying around
are, um …” I can't think of the name. I experience some internal
turbulence, like inside me there's a pot of water with a lid on it, and as the
water comes to the boil, it rattles away.
Two seconds later, Evie's phone screen lights up her face. She looks like
she's about to tell a ghost story.
“Evie,” I hiss. “You can't—”
“Seba's bat?” she suggests. Before I can answer, her thumb twitches,
and the screen flicks off, plunging us back into darkness.
“Right. Seba's bat. Anyway, they echolocate. Even if it's pitch-black,
they know exactly where you are.”
“So it flew right past my ear for the kicks? Little bastard,” Ram
grumbles.
“You mean they can see us?” Evie asks.
“Kind of,” I tell her. I'd never thought of it like that. I guess I've only
made myself invisible to humans. But on reflection, I don't really mind too
much if bats think I'm fat.
“Hey,” Ram says. “Where's Stu? Stu!”
No answer. I thought Stu was right behind us when we came in. Maybe
he is, and he's just screwing with us.
“Have you seen Stu?” Ram asks. I don't know who he's asking. It
sounds like he's a few yards behind us.
“Ain't seen much since I came in here to be honest with you,” someone
replies.
“Stu!” Ram shouts again, getting more distant. “Max, Evie, we'll catch
up with you guys.”
Which means it's just me and Evie. The moment I think it, I can feel my
cheeks turning beet red. Good job she can't see me.
I was pretty surprised she even came. I figured she'd tell us she was
busy at the last minute. Or she was washing her hair. But when Ram's dad
came and picked me up this morning, she was already in the car. (I asked
her if she lived near Ram's dad, in an attempt to be a normal human being
who makes conversation. But she was super-weird about it. Kind of, she
replied. Not really. I mean, closer than you, I guess? I'm not really sure.
Ha-ha! Where are we again?)
As usual, she's spent most of today glued to her phone. She's taken a
minimum of five pictures of every animal we've seen, and like a hundred of
the penguins. She must have a wicked-big hard drive somewhere.
“This is pretty cool, you know, Max,” Evie tells me. She's been calling
me Packham all day. It feels important that she's now calling me Max, but
I'm not quite sure how.
I want to tell her I'm sorry, about before. I want to laugh it off, make
some stupid joke about needing to be more chilled out like a penguin—
anything. But I'm scared of drawing attention to it. If I bring it up, I'm just
ruining another moment, aren't I? And it's not like Evie's never been weird
around me.
I wish I could describe how it feels. How the panic builds, like a wave
crashing over me. How in my head I'm telling myself: This isn't a big deal.
No one cares. Even if you make a total fool of yourself, no one will
remember. But at the same time, Ana's screaming:
Everyone will look at you and laugh at you. Even if you can't see
them laughing, they're being polite. The moment you turn your head
…
And suddenly I'm freaking out. I'll do whatever it takes to get out of the
situation, to end the moment. My nerves prickle all over, and I can't think.
I feel like a psycho. Maybe I am a psycho.
You can control most things that happen in your life, but you can't
control what goes on inside your head.
“There's only one problem,” Evie continues.
“What?” I say. My heart goes from the Jaws theme all the way up to
drum and bass. Right at that moment, a bat brushes past my head, moving
the hairs on my temple without hitting me. Because I'm on edge, I jump out
of my skin. For the second time in thirty seconds, being in a pitch-black
room saves me from looking like a total idiot.
“It's too dark to take a picture,” Evie says.
“Then don't,” I reply, more bluntly than I mean to.
Nicely played, Max. Are you trying to make her hate you?
But I can't help it: The whole let's-take-loads-of-pictures-instead-oflooking-at-stuff thing bugs me. If you go to a reserve to look at birds, there
are always these guys—it's always guys—with massive zoom lenses, trying
to get the perfect shot, fiddling with meters and cable releases and God
knows what else, getting in your way, when all you want to do is look at
birds.
“Wow. Chill out, Packham,” she says. I'm back to Packham again.
“Sorry. But how come you take so many pictures?”
I don't see her cross her arms. But I can feel it. A little wall of tension
shoots up between us. “To remember stuff.”
“That's what your memory is for,” I say.
“Yeah, well, my memory's pretty rubbish.”
“But, like, do you really need to remember everything? Is every single
moment of your life important?”
“No,” she says slowly. It sounds like she's really considering her
response. “But that's the thing with memories, isn't it? You don't know
what's important until later. Hey, I wonder where they've got to,” she says,
and even I can read the subtext: Please change the subject.
“Yeah,” I mumble.
“Do you think Stu chickened out?”
“Dunno,” I say. “Maybe, I guess?” I'm still thinking about the memory
thing. How many memories from the past nine months would I actually
want to save? Right now, I can't think of any. At all.
“Wow, what's got into you? You sound like someone stole your last
Rolo all of a sudden. Ow!” she shrieks.
“What?”
“A bat just flew into me.”
“Really? I mean, they know exactly where you are …”
“Max, listen to me,” Evie says. “One of the little shits hit me. Maybe
he's got a broken radar or maybe he's stupid or nasty or something. I don't
know.”
“Okay,” I say, laughing.
“You don't believe me!”
“I do,” I say. But my voice is kind of high-pitched. Even I can tell it's
probably not very convincing. “Maybe I'd believe you if you had a photo.”
“It's not funny!” she says. And then something hits me, too, square on
the shoulder: Evie's fist. Considering she can't see a thing, it's a pretty good
hit.
“Hey, one just flew into me, too,” I say.
“Oh, you smartass. You think you're sooo funny! Ow! That was another
one! Right, that's it. Get me out of here immediately, Packham.”
I flinch when she grabs my hand, but it's cool, because she just thinks
it's bat-related. Not oh-my-God-Evie-is-holding-my-hand-related.
It's warm. And soft. And, um, kind of clammy.
But I don't mind one bit.
*Zoology-fact klaxon: I have no idea which, because penguins don't show sexual dimorphism,
which is a fancy way of saying males and females look the same. Actually, male Humboldts are
slightly bigger, but that doesn't really help you tell them apart: It could just be a big female or a small
male or whatever.
Bonus zoology-fact klaxon: The reason penguins don't show sexual dimorphism is that they mate
for life, so there's not much competition for mates. No one needs to show off. It's like when I married
your mum and started wearing socks and sandals again—that's how Dad explained it to me.
May 9
Dear Ana,
SHE HELD MY HAND. Voluntarily. Because she wanted to. She
reached out and grabbed it, just like that.
Naturally, you started freaking me out immediately.
—Can she feel how bony it is?
—She's doing it out of pity.
—Or maybe she's scared, because you took her to a
freaking BAT CAVE, like some psycho murderer.
Cheers, Ana.
But she didn't let go. Even when we came out of the
cave and into the light, and she could see exactly where she
was going and there were no bats flying into her or nearly
into her. She did drop it when we saw Ram and Stu, though.
Dropped it like it was hot coal. That didn't make me feel
great.
Now there are about a million questions bouncing around
my head:
—What happens next? Are we, like, together? Does she
want to be together? Was the whole “elephant juice” thing a
cover, and she was actually into me from the start?
—Can she tell I'm ill? Like, she calls me skinny all the
time, jokes about it—but does she realize I'm vital-organsmay-go-on-strike-at-any-moment skinny?
—If she doesn't, how will she react? What if, like, she
wants to go swimming or something, and she sees me with
my top off—sees my skeleton ribs, and the big dark
triangles above my collar bones? Will she want to stick
around then—or will she drop me like she dropped my hand?
Here's the thing, Ana: I kind of need you to get lost for
a bit now. I need to show Evie I can be normal, just for a
little bit. So how about a deal? How about I stick to my
regular diet, and you don't make me freak out about every
little thing? How about I stay in control, and you stay in
control, and we see how that goes? Is that too much to ask?
I'm playing Zelda
15
when Mum comes in. Stu's way ahead of me,
despite the fact he's always at football practice, so I'm trying to catch up.
It's almost dinnertime, and tonight, it's one of my favorites: quiche. People
think anorexics don't like food, but they're wrong. I can 100 percent
guarantee you that I like food more than you do. I love food. That's why I
think about it for sixteen hours a day.
“What's this?” Mum says, holding up my notebook.
My stomach lurches, like I've gone over a speed bump at a hundred
miles an hour. “It's nothing,” I murmur. I can feel my cheeks burning. There
may be no iron left in my blood, but I can still blush.
“Sweetheart,” Mum says, in that I'm-going-to-give-you-the-chance-tobe-straight-with-me voice that parents use all the time.
“Honestly, it's nothing. It's not what you think,” I say.
She thinks it's my food diary. She thinks I'm still secretly recording
everything I eat, so I can make sure the numbers keep going down, down,
down, a little lower every day. I guess I am still doing that—but only in my
head.
I never told Mum about the other diary. The thoughts-and-feelings
diary. The one where I tell Ana exactly how much I hate her and my family
and myself. The one that doesn't contain any sums, because there's no sum
you can do to make yourself happy (believe me, I've tried).
It was in the bottom of my sock drawer. It's not like I wasn't allowed to
keep it or anything. I just didn't want anyone else to see it. The stuff I wrote
there was between me and Ana, you know?
Come to think of it, why was she looking in my sock drawer?
“Max,” Mum says, in the same voice as before. This is your chance to
fess up.
“Where did you find it?”
“It doesn't matter where I found it—”
“Were you going through my stuff?”
“No, love, I wasn't—”
“You don't have any right to go through my stuff,” I tell her.
The more I think about it, the angrier I get. It's like my blood is
suddenly on fire.
She's spying on you.
She's going to try and get you hospitalized.
She wants to get rid of you.
“Max, listen to me.”
“Did you read it?”
“Max, listen—”
“DID YOU READ IT?” I scream, flinging myself toward Mum. I grab
for the diary and rip it out of Mum's hand, somehow, with all my puny
strength. Or maybe she let go, I'm not sure. My hand pings back and hits …
something. There's a beat of nothing, where all I can hear is the roar inside
my head.
That's when I leave my body. Now I'm in a first-person film, and
everything that's happening is happening to someone else. I don't feel
myself turn. I don't feel myself run toward the door. Even the pain in my
finger—What did I hit it on?—feels distant. It doesn't hurt, exactly. It's just
a sensation I'm aware of, like white noise. There's a moment of clarity,
when I look at myself, or this person who used to be me, and think, Who is
he? Why is he running away, again, when there's nothing really wrong?
Why is he so mad at his mum?
And then it's me again. I can tell because it suddenly feels like someone
is trying to shove wires down the blood vessels in my finger. The pain
makes me want to scream.
I turn to look at Mum. She's kneeling on the floor, head bent over,
shoulders shaking. And she's clutching at her face.
“It's not what you think,” I tell her again.
Then I'm gone.
These days, I seem to spend most of my life running away from things.
These days, the people I fight with are the ones I love most. Lindsay says
it's normal. Lindsay says that we all hurt people we love, sometimes. We
shouldn't blame ourselves for it. We should just do our best to show them
how sorry we are.
But when I felt that sting in my finger, my first thought was Have I
broken it? Am I now so weak that my bones snap like little twigs? And it
must have taken me ten seconds, maybe more, to even think about Mum. To
turn and look and try to figure out if she was okay.
Did I just hit my mum in the face?
Writing down everything I eat doesn't work. And apparently, writing
down my feelings doesn't work, either. I'm still selfish. I'm still scared.
This is still happening to me. And the people around me have to bend, like
branches in a storm, if they want to avoid being broken. They have to
accept me being stupid and scary and angry all the time.
Even then, they might not be safe.
Maybe that's why Robin left.
Ana picks this moment to chip in.
One by one, you're driving your whole family away.
When I ran out on that meal with Robin, Louise, and James, I didn't
know where I was going. But this time I do. Across the heath, around the
lake. I've been here so many times, I can count the distances between every
little landmark. It used to take me thirteen seconds and thirty-four steps to
run from the bench with the cache, to the next one along (IN MEMORY OF
RACHEL DOBIN, WHO LOVED THIS PLACE). Today, it's thirty-eight
steps, and probably more like fifteen seconds. Ugh. When you've lost all
the fat you can lose, you start digesting your muscles. You get out of breath
more easily, and you don't move as quickly.
I'm slowing down. That's what old people say, isn't it? It's what they
say on TV anyway. I remember this line from something or other: We only
get one body, and eventually it gives up on us. It can happen slowly, or it
can happen fast. It's all down to how you treat it. And how lucky you are.
Turn left at the fourth bench along going clockwise and into the birch
trees. I watch my feet carefully: I've tripped over these roots more times
than I can remember and fallen flat on my face. If I fall like that now, my
bones would shatter. I read this post on a forum once, where a girl was
explaining how she trained herself to stop putting her hands out when she
fell over. Wrists break easily and take ages to heal. If your bones are weak,
you're better off twisting and landing on your side. You may crack a rib, but
probably not—and even then, you'll be better off.
I reach the oak tree, spring up onto the low branch, and grab the cache.
One by one, I tear the pages out of my diary and stuff them inside.
Dear Ana, I can't talk to you anymore.
Maybe no one will read them. Maybe everyone will. I don't care. I just
don't want to choose. I don't want to be in control anymore.
I tiptoe into the house with a lump the size of Jupiter in my throat.
Maybe they've already called the police.
Maybe they're finally going to send me to a mental ward.
But it's like any other evening. Dad looks up from his crossword and
says, Hi, buddy. I wave at him, without saying anything, and run up the
stairs. I can't face seeing Mum, not yet. My only objective is to get to my
room as quickly as possible.
But she comes out of the office as I'm going past the door.
“Oh, hi, love. I didn't hear you come in,” she says in this really cheery
voice and beams at me.
What the hell is going on?
I can't even process what she's saying. I kind of nod at her and stumble
past like a zombie. I get to my room, close the door, and slump down on my
bed.
Did I imagine the last half hour of my life? Am I in a nightmare? Did I
hit her so hard she lost her memory?
My finger doesn't hurt at all anymore.
Luckily, Ana's there to fill in the blanks.
Don't be an idiot. Didn't you see the way she flinched before she put
that smile on? She's terrified of you. She thinks you're about to lose it
completely. By the way, take a look at your desk.
What?
Your pen's out.
So what?
So your mum wasn't going through your stuff, you idiot. You left
your stupid little diary on your stupid little desk.
Ram looks like
16
he's going to faint.
“That was the worst ninety minutes of my life.”
“The worst ninety minutes of your life so far,” Stu says cheerily,
squeezing between us and throwing an arm around both our shoulders. I
flinch, but I don't think he clocks it.
Practice exams: tests that have no purpose except to make teenagers
anxious and miserable. Even more anxious and miserable. The good news
is, I'm nearly through. I have two left—German and physics—both
tomorrow. After that, there are three completely pointless days back in
normal lessons, then it's summer. And I won't have to pretend to be normal
anymore.
“Don't worry,” I reassure Ram. “They don't count for anything.” This is
approximately the 257th time I've told him this.
He ignores me. “What did you put for the last question?”
“Don't answer him,” Stu warns. This week, we've learned that his nospoilers philosophy extends to exams.
“Why not?” Ram asks, shrugging Stu's arm off and turning to face us.
“I want to know.”
Stu massages his temples. “How many times do we have to go through
this? Because it's done now. Knowing what we put won't change anything.
It'll just make you worry more.” Stu Swindells: the philosopher of
Deanwater High. Maybe he'll end up becoming a psychologist like Lindsay.
I reckon he'd be good at it.
Evie bursts into the hall, looking mad, and comes and joins us. “What
did you idiots put for question seven? The one with the picture?”
Stu holds up his palm, ready to drop some knowledge. He's probably
going to tell us to drink green tea and meditate or something. But before he
can, Ram blurts out, “Xylem.”
“Oh God, I put phloem.”
They turn to Stu and me.
“Who's right?” Evie says.
“Me, when I said you shouldn't talk about it,” Stu says with a shake of
his head.
And I just shrug. Before they said anything, I was pretty sure the labeled
bit of the diagram was actually the cortex. Now I feel like maybe I made a
mistake. Ana is machine-gunning anxious thoughts through my brain.
You sure screwed that one up.
Why do you even care? It's a one-mark question on a test that
doesn't even matter.
Pretty embarrassing, though.
“Anyway, do you want to go get lunch in town?” Ram says, rubbing his
stomach. “I could eat an elephant.”
He seems to be over the practice exam. I'm kind of annoyed at how he
immediately forgets about it—whereas I'm still fizzing with anxiety and
will be for days. Not to mention the usual lurching feeling when someone
starts talking about food.
I glance at Evie, who still looks twitchy. For a moment, I'm glad. Then I
realize this makes me the worst friend in the entire world.
She's probably not even twitchy about the exam. She's probably
twitchy about being around you.
This triggers the thought loop I've been running through for the past
couple of weeks, since the zoo.
Is she into me?
Yeah, right. She grabbed your hand because she was scared, Max.
Because you took her to a bat cave.
But then she held on to it.
For like thirty seconds, until she saw someone else and remembered
what the hell she was doing. It's not exactly Romeo and Juliet, Max.
Maybe I should ask her out.
Oh, good idea! Maybe you could take her to a restaurant and watch
her eat for two hours?
“Sure,” she says vaguely.
And Stu nods.
Ram looks at me. “Max?”
I want to say yes. A lot. But I know it will be horrible. I know they'll
pick some sandwich shop where you don't know what you get until it
arrives, so I'll have no idea how many calories are inside. Maybe they'll
have bags of chips or something—but then, Ram will ask me for a chip,
maybe offer to swap one, and they won't be the same size. Or even worse,
Evie will ask for one.
They already think you're a freak. Don't make it worse.
All of this runs through my head before I answer.
“I've got stuff to do at home,” I mumble.
I watch their faces drop into expressions that say, You're a rubbish
friend.
Wow, they must really hate you. They'll probably cut you loose
soon. Over the summer, maybe. Next year, you'll come back, and they'll
just blank you.
I quickly add, “I'll walk into town with you, though.”
We head toward town. Evie and Ram keep asking each other questions
about the exam. Mainly to shut them up, Stu starts telling us about his
summer holiday: The Swindells are going walking in the Scottish
Highlands.
“Snore,” says Evie. She pulls her phone out of her pocket and starts
scrolling.
“For how long?” Ram asks.
“All summer. We're renting a campervan.”
“You're kidding.”
“Mum and Dad want to get away from the hustle and bustle, so we can
reconnect with each other.”
“Stu, your house is like Zen garden,” Ram says. “And I'm pretty sure
your parents are surgically joined.”
“You're preaching to the choir,” Stu says. “Anyway, what are you
doing?”
“Mum's taking me to France. Again. Last time, we stayed in this little
cottage in the middle of nowhere. There was nothing to do except read a
book.”
Stu and I both make that-sounds-all-right faces. Ram catches us.
“Oh, shut up. It's boring. But the day after I get back, I'm going to
Portugal with my dad. Mad, right?”
“Divorce has its advantages,” Stu says with a shrug.
Ram nods enthusiastically, like one of those dogs you put on the
dashboard of your car. “We went to the same place a couple of years ago.
It's all-inclusive, and they have this amazing unlimited breakfast buffet.
Plus, all the girls walk around in bikinis the entire time.”
“Sounds idyllic.”
“What about you, Max?” Ram asks.
Long story. Mum and Dad finally announced the plan on Sunday. I've
been asking for weeks because I want to start sorting out my food plan.
Well, it turns out that this year—I can't believe I'm actually saying this—
we're going back to Italy. Aka, the place that turned me into an anorexic.
The conversation went like this:
Mum: We're going to Italy again this year, love.
Dad: We're going to stay near Lake Garda for ten days. Does that sound
all right to you?
Me: Is Robin coming?
Mum: Not this year, I'm afraid, love.
Me: Okay.
Dad: We're going to have a great time.
Mum: A really great time.
That was it. Notice how I never responded to the last bit. Because I
didn't have a clue what to say.
We're going back to Italy. I'm going back to Italy.
I'm terrified.
You're going to lose it completely.
Italy's a big country. Lake Garda isn't the same as Venice. And maybe
what happened last time would have happened wherever I was. There are
plenty of anorexics in France and Germany and America, after all.
But it doesn't have to be rational. I'm living proof of that. You can
know something makes zero sense and still let it control your whole world.
Like when people get mugged and end up moving cities, because they're
scared to walk down their own street.
“Max?”
It's Ram. From five yards in front. Because I stopped walking in the
street. It's like I'm going out of my way to look like as big a weirdo as
possible.
“Uh, sorry,” I mumble, scooting to catch up. “We're going to Italy.”
“Pizza,” says Ram, with moony eyes. “Pasta. Ice cream. Niiice.”
“Yeah,” I say, though I feel sick thinking about it.
Evie, as usual, joins the conversation without looking up from her
phone. “Aren't you going to ask where I'm going?”
“You seemed busy,” Stu replies icily. He still gets mad about the phone
thing.
“Where are you going?” Ram asks.
She actually looks up at us when she answers. “I'm going to France
with Ben and Jacob, and the other girls aren't coming!”
She smiles like the Cheshire Cat. Evie never smiles. I swear her eyes
change color—from green to luminous turquoise. You can't help but stare.
“Who are Ben and Jacob?” I ask.
“Who are the other girls?” Ram asks.
Stu's still trying not to look interested, but you can tell he's dying to
know, too.
“Ben and Jacob are my parents,” Evie says. “Obviously.”
Ram, Stu, and I all give one another the same what-the-hell? look.
There's a really long pause.
“What?” Evie says eventually.
“You call your parents by their first names?” says Stu.
Evie's eyes flick to the side. If you weren't looking for it, you definitely
wouldn't have noticed. But I was looking for it. It's the first time I've ever
seen her look the tiniest bit unsure of herself.
“Yep,” she chirps. She starts stuffing her things into her rucksack.
“Anyway, I'd love to stay and chat, but I've got places to be.”
“But I thought we we're going to—” Ram begins.
“Can't,” Evie says abruptly. “Sorry. I'll see you losers tomorrow.”
Then she marches off in the direction of Redlands, which I'm pretty
sure is the opposite direction to her house.
“Weird,” says Ram, as he watches her walk away. He shrugs, then turns
to Stu. “Nando's?”
We haven't heard
17
from Robin for two weeks. When he first moved
out, he came over for dinner pretty much every other night. Then suddenly,
he stopped. Mum reckons he's got a girlfriend—probably that Ffion he
mentioned. Either that, or he's learned how to cook.
Last week, I really wanted to text him and complain about the practice
exams, but I didn't. I didn't want to bug him. I'm pretty sure my neediness
was what made him move out in the first place. I didn't want to make things
worse.
But the night before we go to Italy, he texts me.
All set for camping? :D
I reply within a minute. So much for not being needy.
Me: We're leaving in 12 hours. Take a guess.
Robin: I'm guessing Dad's already put the stuff in the car, and set … 5 alarms?
Me: 6. And we're leaving at 11 a.m. for a 5 p.m. flight.
Robin: A new record!
Me: He's also turned the central heating off already, in case we forget. It's FREEZING.
Robin: Textbook Dad. Has Mum had a go at him yet?
Me: She went to bed an hour ago. She said she had a headache.
Robin: I don't blame her.
Me: I can't believe you're not coming.
I know I shouldn't say it, because it makes me sound pathetic, and
probably makes Robin feel bad. But I can't help it.
Pfft. You'll have much more fun without me. Now get some sleep! You
know Dad's going to make you do an inventory of all the stuff you're taking
at 8 a.m.
I lie awake for ages. Hours, probably, but I don't look at my phone
because I don't want to know how long because that will just stress me out
more. Worries whir around my head like the blades of a ceiling fan. I worry
about forgetting the food I need for tomorrow—the food I'm taking to eat at
the airport, so I know exactly what I've got. I worry about whether the stuff
in the camp shop will all have calorie numbers on it, and what I'll do if it
doesn't. Most of all, I worry about eating out. About staring at a menu that's
just pizza and pasta, carbs on carbs on carbs, and not knowing what to do.
I worry until I exhaust myself, until my brain literally can't wrap itself
around anything else for me to worry about it. And then I pass out.
Anyone could find it, you know. Your tragic little diary: all those
pathetic thoughts and feelings you were stupid enough to write down.
Someone's probably reading it right now and laughing their head off,
and texting the funniest lines to their friends. It wouldn't be hard for
them to figure out who you are. You weren't exactly subtle. Once
they've pieced it together, your humiliation will be complete. But you
won't know a thing about it until September, when you go into school
and realize everyone's laughing at you. Even Stu and Ram and Evie,
because—well, they've done their best, but it'll be way too
embarrassing to stay friends with you after this.
I swear I jump six feet out of my bed. I'm sweating, and my breath is
ragged, like I've just sprinted a hundred meters. I can't remember what I
was dreaming about. All that's left is one thought looping through my head:
You've got to get rid of the diary.
I look at my phone: 5:23 a.m. I'd go now, but Dad sleeps like a field
mouse; he'd hear. Better to wait until after we've done the stupid inventory.
Then I'll have an hour or so to myself.
What was I thinking? Why did I leave all my sad, lame boy-with-agirl's-disease thoughts in my cache, where anyone can find them and read
them? Including, y'know,
My brother, who's already left home because he finds me too difficult
to live with.
My best friends, who I've spent six months hiding it from.
Evie, aka the only girl who's ever shown any interest in me
whatsoever.
Literally every other human being on earth.
We're leaving in an hour.
I walk across the Common on autopilot. I only clock where I am once I
reach the oak tree; I must be really tired today. I'm holding the slice of toast
Mum thrust into my hand when I said I needed to skip breakfast. She made
me promise I'd eat it, and I don't want to let her down. Not this time.
I take a look around for muggles—I've started being a bit more careful
since Evie—then boost myself up, grab the cache, and slide it open.
“You're kidding,” I say to no one. Or to my cache or to the tree, I'm not
sure. I take out the logbook and leaf through it, to double-check.
Meanwhile, Ana starts up.
Told you, you daft prick. Someone's taken it. Soon, everyone will be
reading all that stupid shit you wrote.
Maybe I didn't even leave anything in my cache. Maybe I dreamed the
whole thing. I was in kind of a crazy mood, after all.
Sure, keep telling yourself that.
I open the logbook again, and turn to the most recent page, just to see if
anyone's written, What's with the dumb diary? There are five new entries.
Most of them are the same old thing: TFTC—Sarah, Handforth. But one
leaps out at me.
It says, I'll check back on Tuesday. And I recognize the username:
Stallone05. The first person who visited my cache.
Check back for what?
I look into the cache again to check I haven't missed anything. Then I
see them. The diary pages were there all along; they were wedged into the
join of the wood.
But when I pull them out, I realize the paper is different—blue instead
of white. And the handwriting is a lot, lot neater than mine.
Because it's not my diary.
It's a reply.
Surprise, surprise, we're
18
at the airport four hours early. We
always are. Usually, Dad leaves enough time that even if all the trains are
cancelled, and our car breaks down, and all the taxis in England suddenly
vaporize, we'll still have enough time to walk to the airport and make our
flight.
Dad also thinks airport cafés are totally overpriced and refuses to go to
them. So today, as usual, we end up sitting on the hard plastic seats next to
our gate for two hours. I have to keep getting up and walk around because it
hurts my bony ass so much.
The flight is fine, except my ears go crazy with the pressure changes. I
used to have a piece of candy to help sort it out, but that's definitely off the
cards now. And I'm too shy to ask the flight attendant for water. So I just
swallow air, over and over. It hurts like hell.
We land at the Milan airport, collect our bags, pick up the rental car,
then drive east. We're staying at a campsite right next to Lake Garda, two
hours away. Dad, naturally, refuses to pay for a GPS. Instead, we have a
Northern Italy road map that folds out to roughly the size of a swimming
pool, which Mum spends most of the journey wrestling with.
Mum and Dad have the same conversation about twenty times in four
hours (yes, it ends up taking four hours):
Dad: We're coming up to a junction. Can you check whether we want to
stay on E64?
Mum: Hold on, let me find it.
Dad: Okay.
[Rustling noises]
Dad: We're nearly at the junction.
Mum: Did we pass Stezzano already?
Dad: I'm not sure.
[Long silence]
Dad: Any idea?
Mum: I think we should stay on the highway.
[More rustling noises]
Mum, two minutes later, sheepishly: I think we should have turned off
back there.
I've been dreading this holiday for months, but now that it's here, I'm
kind of excited. Maybe it's partly because I have two whole weeks where I
don't have to worry about making excuses not to see people or do stuff. But
I'm also wondering whether maybe, just maybe, this is my chance to
change things. Maybe I'll figure out why I got ill last summer—and maybe,
if I do that, I can make myself better.
It kind of makes sense, right?
I have the note with me. Right after I found it, I got a text from Mum.
Taxi leaving in 15 minutes! I sprinted home, and by the time I got there,
Mum, Dad, and all of our bags were already in the taxi. I didn't get a
chance to go inside the house. I just slipped the note into my pocket.
I didn't want to read it until I was on my own. I knew Mum and Dad
would've worried about it, and I already give them plenty to worry about.
We checked in and went through security; I could feel it in my pocket,
weighing me down, like the ring in The Lord of the Rings. Then, as soon as
we were on the other side of security, I went and found a bathroom to read
it.
Wow. I mean, like, wow. I don't know what to say.
I'm sorry for all the crap you've gone through.
I don't really know what to say, except YOU'RE NOT ALONE. I guess it
can be hard to feel that way sometimes. But even from the stuff you
wrote … Just because people don't always get exactly how you're feeling,
doesn't mean they don't care.
I know it's not the same, but my family's pretty screwed up, too. And
for a long time, I felt like it was all my fault. I didn't even have any
brothers or sisters to blame it on.
But I was wrong. And guess what? You're wrong, too. Because NONE
OF THIS IS YOUR FAULT!!!
You've just got to deal with your crap and keep putting one foot in
front of the other.
When things are crap, my dad always says the same thing to me:
Tomorrow will be different. He doesn't literally mean tomorrow. It's more
like, things always change eventually. Even if they feel like they never will.
I've got to go now. But if you leave another note, I'll write back. I'll
keep checking.
Remember: TOMORROW WILL BE DIFFERENT!
E
It's got to be Evie. It can't be Robin, because of all the family stuff, and
Evie's the only other person I know who's ever even heard of a geocache.
Plus, it's signed with an E. But there's one bit that doesn't make sense. The
other day at lunch, she was definitely talking about her siblings—but now,
apparently, she's an only child?
Maybe she was an only child, but she isn't anymore.
Or maybe she's just being weird again.
And then another thought hits me: I wrote about her in my diary. Oh
God oh God oh God. All that stuff about her holding my hand … OH GOD.
Even worse, I don't have any kind of record, so I can't find out exactly
what I did write. I just get to stew about it.
And for the next two weeks, I can't even reply.
The first surprise of the holiday comes when we finally arrive at the
campsite.
The man at the gate hands Dad a key. “Numero trentadue, signore.”
“Grazie,” Dad replies.
“What's that for?” I ask Dad as we drive on into the site.
Dad shrugs. “Maybe the showers are locked,” he says.
Which makes zero sense. “Then don't we need one each?” I ask. I'm
not exactly keen on the idea of checking in with Mum and Dad every time I
want to go to the loo.
Dad smiles into the rearview mirror. “We'll be there in a minute. Why
don't we wait and see?” As if the showers were the Magic Kingdom or
something.
To be fair, the campsite's actually pretty cool. There's a pool with
waterslides, about a hundred Ping-Pong tables, and a beach. It's set in this
huge forest, and there are loads of nature trails leading up into the hills.
There aren't any geocaches, though: I've already checked.
Dad pulls up in front of this big log cabin, like the ones they have in ski
resorts.
“We're here,” he says.
I say, “Where's the field?” There are trees all around us. I laugh. “Did
you park on it again, Dad?”
Mum and Dad look at each other, grinning.
“What?” I ask. “What's going on?”
“We decided to do something different this year, love,” Mum says.
“Since Liberace decided to sit this one out.”
“What do you mean?”
Suddenly, my heart is doing death-metal beating. Anxiety is one part of
anorexia no one really talks about, probably because it's not the part that
kills you. But it feels like a wind blowing inside you twenty-four hours a
day. Sometimes, it's so strong it can knock you over; sometimes, it's a
rippling breeze you barely notice. But it's always there.
Dad turns around, sees my expression, and laughs right in my face. “We
got a cabin.”
“So you can have a room all to yourself,” says Mum.
“And a proper kitchen!” Dad adds.
Oh.
Wow.
This might not sound like much, but the Howarths always—always—go
for the cheapest possible option in every situation. Always 100 percent
guaranteed. It's like a family policy. When we got the Eurostar to France
two years ago, business-class seats were a whole two pounds more
expensive, and we still went economy. Now Mum and Dad are telling me
they've spent probably two or three times what they normally do for
accommodation, so I can have my own room and cook the things I want to
cook.
WOW.
It's probably the nicest thing anyone's ever done for me.
I look from Mum to Dad, and back again. They both have the same
expression on their faces: excited, but also kind of scared about how I'm
going to react. I can tell they weighed everything up, discussed all the
options, probably even asked Lindsay, who probably told them I needed my
space, and that having a kitchen would allow me to stick as closely as
possible to my home routine.
It's all for me.
I'm so happy I can barely speak. “Thank you,” is about all I can
manage.
“You're welcome,” Dad says. “Now, why don't you two have a look
around, and I'll bring the bags in?” He hands me the key.
Mum and me go inside. And it's … amazing. There's a massive kitchen,
with an oven, a microwave, four burners, a giant fridge-freezer. There's
every kind of pan you could think of. Chef's knives. Wooden spoons.
There's even a set of scales, though I brought mine anyway.
The cabin is decorated like a chalet. The walls are made of wood, and
there's a wood-burning stove, wooden shutters, a wooden dining table with
wooden chairs. The whole downstairs area—kitchen, dining room, and
lounge—is one big open space. And upstairs, there are two big bedrooms—
I have a double bed!—and a bathroom.
Oh, and for some reason, there's a cuckoo clock in every single room.
Seriously.
I guess it's a little cheesy. But I don't care. For a good ten minutes, I'm
over the moon. I forget about everything I've been worrying about during
the three-hour flight, the four-hour drive. And, you know, the last nine
months.
And then, there it comes again. Maybe the wind isn't the best analogy.
The anxiety's more like a river: It has to flow somewhere. If you try to
block it off, it finds another route to the sea. As soon as one thing seems
okay, Ana finds something else for me to worry about.
This place must've been expensive. A lot more expensive than a
field. Is that why Robin isn't here? Because Mum and Dad couldn't
afford for him to come?
Or was it because he hates you? Or was it a bit of both?
Dad totters through the door, loaded up with bags. He drops them with a
satisfied sigh, like someone who's just drunk a Coca-Cola in an ad. “So,
what do you think?” he says.
I think a lot of things. But each good thought has a nasty sidekick,
courtesy of Ana.
I can cook whatever I like.
… but your mum and dad will worry if you don't eat it all.
Wow, my room's big.
… and you're mostly going to lie awake in it, crying like a baby.
It's like having a debate with the smartest person in the world. Every
time I think I've made a good point—wham—she demolishes my argument,
and makes me feel like a total idiot.
“It's great,” I reply. “Thanks, Dad.”
Dad nods enthusiastically. I turn to look at Mum. She's beaming so hard
I want to cry.
I pick up my bag and take it up to my room. I shut the door and lean
against it. I close my eyes. My Zen period lasted all of five minutes. Now,
I'm a bag of nerves—and on top of that, I feel super-guilty. Why can't I be
happy when my parents have done all this for me?
“Want a drink, Max?” Mum shouts from the kitchen. “We're having hot
chocolate!”
I slump down on my huge, soft double bed. “I'm fine,” I shout back.
Here are my
19
top five tips for going on holiday with an anorexic:
1. Get ready to spend a lot of time in museums. People with eating
disorders are kind of obsessive. We want to see and do everything—
and I mean everything. If you take me to the Louvre, I'll look at every
single picture and read every single sign (which apparently takes three
months) because I hate the idea of missing out on stuff. This is true
even when every sign is in a language I don't actually speak.
2. Don't ask us about it afterward. The only problem is, I won't
actually take much of the stuff on those signs in. I'm too tired. Don't
ask me if I read the bit about Da Vinci's childhood, because if I missed
it or can't remember it, I'll be upset.
3. Eating out is tricky. When you order at a restaurant, you never know
quite what you're going to get, unless you're at McDonald's or
something. (Anorexics like McDonald's a lot more than you'd think.)
Counter service is great, because we get to see the food before we
order it. Even better if it's already in portions. Buffets are harder,
because it's way too easy to lose control and overeat. The worst
possible option is sharing food with other people on the table. Never,
ever, ever take an anorexic for tapas.
4. Don't go to the beach. Trust me. You don't want to see an anorexic
with their top off—and they want you to see them about a million
times less. If you have to go to a beach, make sure there's somewhere
they can sit in the shade with a book, or find them a private cove, or
whatever.
5. Watch how much water we drink. Some anorexics don't drink
enough water, because when you're stick-thin, even a glass of water
makes you feel bloated. Others drink loads, to fill their stomachs with
something that isn't food. Both of these can be pretty dangerous,
especially on holiday.
Oh, and here's a bonus one: Please don't play Billy Joel's greatest hits
on every single car journey. That's not an anorexia thing. It's a my-parents
thing.
The fourth night of the trip, July 23, is Mum and Dad's wedding
anniversary. Most couples would go out for a romantic meal or whatever,
and leave their kids in peace. But we aren't most families. Mum has this
cringey line: Our children are the most important part of our marriage.
Which means me and Robin get to go to their romantic dinners, too.
Tonight, we go to this posh restaurant right by the lake. We sit outside.
There are little tea lights all around the garden, and a big white canopy
overhead.
“It's very romantic,” says Dad as our waiter leads us to our table.
I make my I-want-to-spew face. Mum doesn't exactly look convinced,
either.
When they come to take our drinks order, Mum chooses some wine—a
carafe, because Dad's driving, so it's basically just for her. But then she
asks for three glasses.
I look at her.
“You can have a glass if you want, Max.”
Dad nods in agreement.
Wow. Wow. My parents are nuts about alcohol, drugs, and anything else
that's even a little bit bad for you. When Robin was thirteen, they banned
him from eating Pop-Tarts. They may as well have just offered me my first
hit of heroin.
How do I say no?
“Are you sure?” I ask, hoping they'll change their mind.
“It's a special occasion,” Mum says.
“Our anniversary,” Dad adds. It's weird: He looks at Mum when he says
it, as if she maybe needs reminding of this fact. I want to say: I reckon she
knows, Dad.
Then the waiter comes back, carrying the carafe of wine, and says,
“Who will taste-a the wine?” He's got this really strong accent, like he's
playing an Italian waiter in a cheesy movie, except it's for real.
Dad looks at me. I'm about to shake my head when he says, “Max, want
to do the honors?” The waiter switches direction.
Oh God. I'm not sure why my parents think the rules don't apply here. I
guess they're assuming I'll be so excited about having a drink, I'll forget
that, y'know, I'm bloody anorexic. Or maybe it's a holiday thing—Mum
always says her diet doesn't count when she's on holiday.
Unfortunately, mine does. However much I want to, I can't shut Ana up.
Alcohol's really calorific. There are like a million calories in one sip
of wine.
The waiter pours a little into my glass and looks at me expectantly. I
look at Dad, then Mum. There's this horrible silence that lasts about three
ice ages. It's like a total standoff.
Mum grins at me, and it makes me want to snap: This isn't funny, Mum.
“You know, Max, most of the flavor comes from the smell,” she says. She
reaches over, grabs the glass, and does an exaggerated sniff. “Many
oenophiles just smell it to see if it's good.”
“Eno—what?”
“Oenophiles,” Dad chips in. “Wine experts.”
Mum's eyes flick to Dad. She looks mad at him for some reason.
“Um, okay,” I say. I'm pretty certain Mum and Dad have never ever not
tasted the wine they're supposed to be tasting. But I'm happy to run with it.
Mum hands the glass back to me, grinning again. I hold the cup of the
glass with both hands—I'm shaking so much I'm worried I'll drop it—and
sniff. I have no idea what I'm even supposed to be smelling.
“It's good?” the waiter says. He looks kind of mad, too, like, Why is this
stupid teenager wasting my time?
I nod at him. He smiles a big fake smile, then pours glasses for Mum
and Dad, then tops mine off. Mum gives me this big, cheesy thumbs-up.
“I'm still going to drink it,” I say when the waiter's gone. Then I add:
“Hopefully.”
I mean it, too. Sometimes, it's not the food exactly, but the pressure of
the moment. Once the moment is over, you stop freaking out and feel a bit
stronger.
“I know,” Mum says. She reaches over and lays her hand on mine. “But
you don't have to, love. It's okay.”
Mum and Dad didn't get this idea at all to start with. If I couldn't eat
something there and then, they'd assume the sky was falling in. But I guess
they've got used to it. To me. To Ana.
For a moment, I'm really happy. Then I remember I still have to order
food.
Go wild, fatty. Gotta work on that belly.
The menu's all in Italian, but I can work most of it out. It's a posh
restaurant, so there's no pizza, which is my go-to order, because at least you
know exactly what you're getting then. At this kind of place, you're
supposed to order a starter, pasta, and then a main course. I guess that's
what Mum and Dad will be doing. When you're anorexic, you spend a lot
of time sitting around watching other people eat. It's crazy-boring.
Eventually, I decide on a caprese salad.
Good choice. As long as it's not drowning in oil.
I know the waiter's going to say something like, Is that all? at which
point I will totally die inside. But I know I'll feel worse if I order something
else. Plus, we've come up with an okay way of dealing with this situation.
Dad will say something like, “He's going to share with me,” and they'll
bring out an extra plate, and we'll smear a bit of sauce on it or whatever. It
works fine as long as the restaurant is big enough that there aren't waiters
around all the time. I think it will work here.
And you know what? It's okay. Everything is okay. I pick at my caprese
salad for two hours while Mum and Dad eat their way through a plate of
meat and olives, then pasta, then steak (Mum) and duck (Dad), but I don't
even mind, because it's their anniversary, and they deserve to have a nice
night. Sure enough, my salad is swimming in olive oil, but I don't freak out.
I just pick out each bit and let it drain off before eating it. I mean, I've got
plenty of time to kill.
I even drink the wine—some of it. Mum asks me how it tastes, and I say
it's delicious, because I don't want to say, It's like sour fruit juice and I
can't believe I wasted calories on this. The worst thing? I only had a sip, but
I have no clue how many calories that is, so I have to count it as a whole
glass.
It doesn't matter. Everything's okay.
But then, Mum and Dad fall out.
Big time.
Have you ever noticed how the biggest arguments start with the most
stupid things? I remember one Easter, when I was about ten, Mum and
Auntie Jess had a massive argument—like screaming-and-shouting-and-
storming-out-of-the-house-and-not-talking-for-a-couple-of-monthsafterward massive—about whether you should hang clothes on radiators.
Seriously.
Well, tonight, it starts with dessert.
Dad, to Mum: Do you want dessert?
Mum: I don't mind.
Dad: It's up to you.
Mum: Why is it up to me?
Dad: I just mean I'm not fussed.
Mum: Why do I have to make all the decisions? Why can you never be
bothered?
Dad: Come off it, Becks.
Mum: Every time we do anything, it's, like, “Becks, you choose.”
Dad: It's called being polite.
“It's polite to ask,” Mum says. Her voice goes weak and wobbly and
high-pitched; I can tell she's about to cry. “But it's not always my
responsibility to make a decision. I should be allowed to bounce the odd
ball back into your court, you know?”
“You are.”
“It doesn't feel like it.”
“We'll have dessert.”
“I don't want dessert. That's not the point. For God's sake, Joe. Are you
listening to me?”
“Of course,” says Dad.
And so am I. I'm listening as my mum rips the guts out of my dad in the
middle of a restaurant. On their anniversary. Over nothing.
I mean, yeah. She has a point. Dad is terrible at making decisions, and it
can be annoying sometimes, especially when the decision doesn't matter at
all. Like, for instance, there are two Indian takeaways near us, both the
same distance away, but in opposite directions. And whenever we get
takeaway Dad spends twenty minutes going around the house asking our
opinions—Robin, you like bhuna, don't you? Do they do that at the Mahal?
—when what he should really do is just pick one.
But it always comes from a good place, you know? That's how it feels
to me, anyway. Like he wants us to have what we want.
And it's not really that big a deal. Is it?
Mum seems to think it is.
We don't get dessert. Dad makes a point of asking to see the menu—
even I can tell this is a bad call—but neither of them reads it. Mum finishes
her wine and reaches over and grabs my glass without even looking at me,
and finishes that, too. When the waiter comes back around, Dad asks for the
bill.
“Il conto, per favore.”
Then we sit in silence for about ten minutes.
Then the waiter comes back, and Dad pays, and we all say thank you.
Then we get into the car and drive back to our campsite.
I guess there's a bright side to all this. For once, the argument isn't my
fault.
Tomorrow will be
20
different. The phrase from the letter echoes
around inside my head. What I want to know is, different how?
Tomorrow, the number on my calendar will be one higher.
Tomorrow, I'll probably have finished the book I'm reading.
Tomorrow, if I'm lucky, I might see a honey buzzard.
What else?
So, I know Evie—or whoever wrote that note—said that it doesn't
actually mean tomorrow. It's more like: at some point in the future, your life
will be totally different to how it is today. But I can't help thinking about it
that way. Anorexia kills 20 percent of the people who get it. There's a pretty
good chance I don't have that many tomorrows left. I've got to think shortterm.
We're supposed to be going to Sirmione this morning, which is a little town
built on a peninsula that juts out into the lake. There's a big medieval castle
right on the water; our guidebook describes it as breathtaking.
When I wake up, I dig around in my suitcase, and pull out one of the
three books I've brought with me: a guide to the birds of Northern Italy. I
turn to the page with the folded-down corner: buzzards. I want to check
which habitat is best for seeing honey buzzards again.
Honey Buzzard. Pernis apivorus. Family: Accipitridae. L 52–59 cm, WS 113–115 cm. Summer
visitor (late Apr–Sep). Common. Breeds mainly in forest clearings in mountainous areas.
Identification
Slightly larger than Common Buzzard. The key differences are slimmer neck …
It's not like honey buzzards are particularly rare or anything. But we
barely get them in England, and I like the name, I guess. I'd love to see a
lammergeier, too. But you don't get them outside of the Alps—and even
there, they're pretty hard to see.
Then I start flicking through all the other birds I might come across:
warblers, pygmy owls, alpine swifts. I think I saw a crag martin,
Ptyonoprogne rupestris, yesterday, but I didn't have my binoculars with me
so I couldn't tell for sure. Italy isn't really known for its birds, but I'm
making the best of it. I've got to do something to fill my time, right?
I'm not exactly looking forward to breakfast, and not just for the normal
reasons. Here's the thing: Italy is great at most kinds of food, but they can't
do breakfast. You get a cappuccino or a hot chocolate (or if you're me, a
black tea or a glass of water), and a stale roll. That's it. We've been eating
at the campsite most days, so it doesn't really matter—I've been having
cornflakes. But today, we're planning to leave early and eat breakfast in
Sirmione.
I check my phone: 8:37 a.m. We were supposed to leave before eight,
and Dad's pretty uptight about sticking to schedules. I can count the number
of times he's been late for anything on one hand. I get up and go to find
him.
Instead, I find Mum. She's sitting in the kitchen eating a slice of toast
on her own. There wasn't any bread in the house last night, so she must've
been out already without me hearing.
She doesn't say anything when I walk into the room, which is weird.
Mum greets me with a cheery Morning, love! every day, even if we've
argued or whatever. But she just looks at me.
“Where's Dad?” I ask.
She flinches slightly—the kind of flinch that would make Dad say,
Someone walking on your grave?
“Your dad's gone out.”
“Where? Aren't we going to Sirmione?”
“Not today, love.”
I feel a little twinge of relief when she says love. I thought she might be
cross with me.
“How come?”
“We're just not,” Mum says abruptly. She gives me a please-can-youdrop-it look.
“Okay.”
Then she does a 180º, and gives me this huge, mushy smile. Mum sucks
at losing her temper. She normally apologizes after about seven seconds,
and still feels guilty about it days afterward. “How about you go birdwatching today? There was that one you wanted to find …”
“A honey buzzard. But I'm not sure I'll see one this close to the lake.”
There's this bird-watching motto: If you're happy to see a sparrow, you're
never disappointed. Which means, basically: Don't get your hopes up.
Birders love lame mottos. Another one is Once bittern, twice shy. When
you're starting out, you think you've seen all these rare birds, like bitterns
and lammergeiers. But 99 percent of the time, you haven't.
“But there's a chance?”
It's funny. Mum's never taken much interest in my bird-watching before
—it's much more Dad's thing. But right now, she's giving me this pleading
look, as if me seeing a honey buzzard would pretty much make her year.
“Yes,” I say. I don't want to let her down. “Especially if I walk up into
the hills.”
Another mushy smile. “That's good. Make sure you take your phone.”
I'm confused. Is she asking me to go out, or telling me? “What are you
going to do? When's Dad coming back?”
“I'm going to read for a bit, love. Be back for lunch, okay?”
I know I should leave it there, but I have this heavy feeling in my
stomach, like I'm going over a speed bump. Like the universe's tilted on its
side, and we're about to fall off. “Mum,” I say.
“What is it, Max?”
“Is everything all right?”
She kneads her eyeballs. Which is never good. “Can you just do what I
asked?”
I don't say anything else. I go to my room, get my stuff, and leave. As
soon as I close the door, I realize I haven't had any breakfast.
I carry on walking.
There are a dozen paths that run from the campsite into the woods, along
the lake, up into foothills. No one uses any of them, except for the one that
goes straight to the beach. Twenty yards from the door of our cabin, I'm
totally alone.
It's sunny, but it's cold in the forest: You can feel the temperature drop
the moment you step under the trees. The sun jabs its way through the
beech canopy, casting leopard spots on the ground, which dance in the
breeze coming off the lake.
I go along the main path leading away from the campsite until I hit a
junction. Four paths. One loops around to the far end of the beach, where
the rock pools are, where I spent most of yesterday looking for crabs. One
is marked ALL'AUTOSTRADA: “to the motorway.” The other two are
nature trails. I take a look at my campsite map. The right-hand one hugs the
lake and leads to a little village called Entera. The other curves up into the
foothills, then back down on the other side of the campsite.
I take that one. It'll be quieter—not that there are exactly a ton of people
around—and I'll have a better chance of seeing a buzzard if I'm higher up.
I walk for a bit, scanning the canopy for birds. I see Italian sparrows
browsing on the ground, and a couple of redstarts. If you're happy to see a
sparrow, you're never disappointed, I tell myself.
The path climbs pretty quickly out of the lake valley. After a few
minutes, I'm puffing. I think my anemia's getting worse. I sit down on a
rock to catch my breath. I check my phone, to see if there are any geocaches
near here, even though I've already checked a bunch of times, and I know
there aren't.
And I tell myself I'm having fun.
You can't even get your own parents to hang out with you.
Sometimes it feels like the worst part of anorexia isn't anything to do
with food. It's not about how scared I am of getting fat or my next meal, or
any of that stuff. Sometimes, it feels like the worst part is the way Ana
sucks the fun out of everything I do. Even when I'm doing stuff I enjoy—
looking for birds, or watching a film, or whatever—I feel rubbish after
about ten seconds.
I'm anemic: There's not enough iron in my blood, and the color's
slowly draining out of me. And at the same time, my world is turning gray.
I'm sitting in a forest. The leaves above me are lime and emerald,
depending on how the sun's hitting them. Below me, the lake is a deep,
shimmering blue. I'm wearing red sneakers, a yellow T-shirt. But it all feels
gray.
When I get back, Dad's unloading the car. I'm a little nervous about
what he's chosen for lunch, without my input: This definitely isn't the deal.
But I can't complain too much, because it's bound to be less stressful than
eating out in Sirmione would've been.
“Hi, Dad,” I say. I'm surprised at how happy I am to see him. I guess I
didn't realize how worried I was until now. “No honey buzzards, again, but
I did see …” I peter out when he looks up, and I catch his face. “What's
wrong?”
Then I notice a lot of things all at once.
The suitcase in the trunk.
The file of documents Dad's holding.
The jacket he's got slung over his arm, even though it's 32 degrees
Celsius here.
Dad isn't unloading the car.
He's leaving.
August 2
Sorry I haven't written back until now. I went on holiday
right after I got your last note. Hopefully you haven't got
bored and given up or whatever.
Anyway, the holiday was a total disaster. My mum and
dad had this massive argument, and Dad ended up leaving the
holiday early. Then me and Mum sat around for a week with
nothing to do. She tried to tell me it wasn't a big deal. Dad
just went home early because there are elections soon. (My
dad works for the county council.) But I'm not stupid. He's
never even worked late before, let alone skipped a holiday. I
wanted to call her a liar, and make her tell me what was
really going on. But I made the mistake of looking her in the
eye.
Fun fact: You stop looking people in the eye when you're
like me. Aka, when you're anorexic. (Now that I know
someone's reading this, it feels weird writing that word. I've
been keeping it secret for so long.) I'm not sure why it
happens exactly. I guess you're sort of scared of what you
might see.
Anyway, when I looked properly at my mum for the
first time in weeks, I saw how upset she was. With me. With
my dad. With everything. So I went along with it. I pretended
Dad was busy, and everything was okay.
For the rest of the holiday, we basically stayed around
the campsite. We didn't have much choice: Dad took the
rental car with him when he left. Mum didn't feel like doing
much. She mainly just read her book in the cabin, or
sometimes by the pool. I spent the whole week walking
around Lake Garda, looking for birds. But I didn't see the one
I really wanted to see.
July 27th was actually my birthday, and it was the
worst day of all. It's the first birthday I've had since being
ill, and, well, it wasn't exactly a cakewalk. No pun intended.
We agreed the day before that I wouldn't open any presents
until I got home, so I could do it with Dad, too. I went for a
walk by myself, and while I was out, Mum went to the camp
shop and got loads of ingredients to make a cake, which was
really nice of her, because she definitely wasn't in the mood.
The problem was neither of us actually wanted to eat any
cake. At home, we'd feed it to my dad and my brother, but
they weren't there. I ended up breaking it into crumbs and
feeding it to the birds.
When we finally got home, Mum and Dad acted all happy
and smiley. Dad said he'd missed us, as if he'd never been
there and we'd just decided to go on holiday without him. He
gave me a big hug, even though he hates hugging me now,
because I'm so thin. I started to wonder if maybe everything
will work out. But he didn't give Mum a hug.
Since then, everything
's been really tense. It's like …
my parents have been walking on eggshells around me for a
year. And now, they're walking on eggshells around each
other, too. I have no idea what's going to happen, but it
doesn't feel good.
Sorry, this is super-boring. I'll shut up now. Thanks for
writing to me. And if you don't want to write back, I won't
blame you.
M
August 12
OMG, THE SAME THING HAPPENED TO ME! I must've gone away like
the exact day you sent that. That sounds like a big fat lie, doesn't it?
But I promise, I'm not bullshitting you. By the time that letter arrived, I
was already on a plane.
So, um, yeah. Hopefully you're still hanging in there?
I'm not going to lie, your life sounds like a mess. Total car crash, to be
honest. So how about I tell you what's going on in my life? It might make
you feel a bit better.
It was supposed to be just me and my dad going on holiday. But at
the last minute, Dad told me Katya was coming, too. “Who the hell is
Katya?“ you ask? GOOD QUESTION, my friend. I'd never even heard of
Katya before I found out I was going on holiday with her. You know why?
Because Dad only met her TWO WEEKS AGO.
Well, I can inform you that Katya is a complete bitch. She tried to be
nice to me for like five minutes, but got upset that I didn't immediately
start pretending that she was my new mum. And Dad took her side,
because he starts acting like a total idiot whenever some woman he
fancies shows up. Apparently, I “wasn't trying hard enough,” and I needed
to “understand that he had feelings, too.” Which I do. The only problem
was, Dad felt the need to express those feelings by taking Katya back
to his hotel room roughly every five minutes. If you know what I mean.
I spent the whole holiday kicking around the pool on my own, while my
dad screwed some woman called Katya. Katya what? Come to think of
it, I don't have a honking clue what her last name is. I bet Dad doesn't
either.
But hey, maybe tomorrow really will be different, and my dad will
dump Katya, and your mum and dad will sort things out, and everything
will be sweet. You never know, right?
The good news is, I'm back for the rest of the summer now. I'll
check you-know-where again tomorrow.
E
P.S. Happy birthday! You never said what presents you got. Spill the
beans!
August 14
Okay, you'll probably think I'm a total weirdo when I tell you
what I got. But you asked, so here goes:
—A new phone. That's not too weird I guess.
—A coat. By which I mean a massive furry parka. Who
gets a coat in the middle of August, right? But I'm freezing
all the time.
—A soft toy fox. It's for my dog, Sultan. Sultan's
birthday is two days after mine, so he always gets a present
on my birthday, too (except this year I had to give it to him
when we got back from Italy). I'm not gonna lie, he looks
pretty cute carrying a toy fox around in his mouth.
—A bee hotel. You're probably wondering what the hell
that is. The name pretty much covers it: It's a hotel for
bees. There are porters and a swimming pool and … Okay,
I'm lying. It's basically a set of little tubes for rare bees to
make nests in. My brother made it for me.
—A TON of books. Including two copies of this one I
really wanted, called The Life of a Cuckoo. Somehow my mum
and my dad both bought it for me. Given everything that's
going on, it was a bit awkward.
You're probably thinking, “Um, why did you ask for a
book about cuckoos?” Allow me to nerd out for a minute. I
don't know if you're into birds or whatever, but cuckoos are
kind of amazing. Instead of raising their own chicks, they
lay them in other birds' nests, so the chicks grow up
surrounded by complete strangers. And as soon as they
hatch, they kill the other chicks, and gobble all of the food.
The new parents don't even realize what's going on. Crazy,
right?
I guess being on your own makes you tough. Come to
think of it: If Katya starts giving you shit again, you should
definitely go all cuckoo on her. Wait—brain wave! I have a
spare copy of this book anyway. I'll leave it in my cache for
you. Maybe it will inspire you, ha-ha.
Anyway, things have got better here since I last wrote.
It doesn't seem quite as tense. Tonight, we're all having
dinner as a family—my brother's coming over, too. I'm
thinking maybe my mum and dad have worked things out. I
guess I'll find out.
I'll write back soon.
M
My first-ever memory
21
is from the Cheshire County Show, age
four, when a goat head-butted my ice cream out of my hand. My secondever memory is from a holiday to the Black Forest. It must've been the
following summer, when I was five. We were at a campsite deep in the
forest, where one night they spit-roasted a whole wild boar. I remember
walking through the trees, under stars so bright they cast shadows in the
forest, toward a big, orange fire in the distance.
What's your first memory? What about the first birthday party you can
remember, and the first Christmas? I bet at least one of them involves food.
I asked Mum and Dad about their first date once. Mum said, “We went to
an Italian place. I can't remember much except that your dad had spaghetti
with clams, which seemed very grown-up to me.”
The big moments in your life, the ones that really matter? They all
involve food. We use food to celebrate, to commemorate, to keep kids
happy when they're driving us nuts. Food is what keeps us alive. But it's
way more than that. For most people—for normal people—it's a pretty big
part of what makes their life worth living.
If you're anorexic, you carry these happy food memories around with
you, every day. I think about this a lot. Probably too much. If you're
addicted to drugs or alcohol, you can always think back to a happier time,
before those things were part of your life. But if you're addicted to not
eating, every memory you have turns sour on you.
This probably won't work.
Lindsay's not stupid. She's bound to see right through it. On the other
hand, she's nice enough—trusting enough—that she might believe me.
And it's not like I've got anything to lose.
I weighed myself this morning: —. I'm now five feet tall: half an inch
taller than I was the last time I saw Lindsay. The jury's still out on how
much anorexia stunts your growth; it probably depends on how long you
have it for and how bad it is. But for the first time ever, I'm taller than Aunt
Jess.
That means my BMI is now under —. Lindsay's going to hate me.
Since I weighed myself, I've drunk four pints of water, eaten one slice
of toast and spread, and half a cucumber, which was the best way I could
think of upping my weight without adding too many calories.
Still a few calories, though. You could have done without the toast.
I've also taken the wrappers off two Kit Kat Chunkys and one Snickers.
I didn't want to just throw the bars away, so I wrapped them in a tissue and
left them in my bedside drawer. I guess I'll give them to Ram when I see
him.
There's one wrapper in my pocket and two in my rucksack. I don't
know which is where: I thought it would be more natural if I didn't. At
some point, if everything goes to plan, I'm going to get my phone out of my
pocket and drop a wrapper on the ground. And then, when Lindsay gives
me my worksheet—I get one after every session—I'm going to open my
rucksack right in front of her.
If you pull this off, she won't bother you. She'll leave you alone.
I'm trying. But she doesn't understand. She needs to think I'm eating,
so she can see how hard I'm trying.
It probably won't work. But I've got to do something.
“How was your holiday?”
We've been having this conversation for ten months now. It's always
exactly the same. Five minutes of smiley small talk about my life, and then
she starts asking the questions I don't want to answer. How do you feel?
Any dizziness, numbness, or pain?
Bad. Awful. Yes, yes, and yes.
Say whatever you need to say to shut her up.
“It was good,” I tell her. “I saw a honey buzzard.”
This is my practice lie. The lie before the yeah-I'm-totally-eating-loadsof-chocolate-bars-what-are-you-talking-about lie. I want to see if I crumble
under pressure, or if I have some kind of tell Lindsay can spot a mile off.
But she's delighted. She swallows it whole. “That's brilliant, Max!” she
says, as if I've just cured cancer.
Then she pauses. Normally, she'd ask about a million follow-up
questions. Where did you see it? Was it flying? Was it a male or a female?
She gets pretty excited when I volunteer any information whatsoever about
my life. But right now, she looks a little lost, like she doesn't know what to
say next.
Which never happens.
“Max,” she says eventually, in that I'm-about-to-say-somethingimportant voice that you can spot a mile off, even if you've never heard it
from that person before. “Is there anything else you want to tell me about
your holiday? It can help to talk through these things, even if it feels
painful.”
And then I twig: She knows what happened.
I shake my head.
“These sessions are your chance to get things off your chest,” she says.
“Anything you say will stay in this room.”
She wants me to open up to her. She wants me to say, My brother left
home because he's sick of me, and then my dad left our holiday early
because he couldn't stand the idea of spending any more time with my mum,
or with me, or with both of us. I haven't seen any of my friends in a month,
and I'm not sure I want to, except for the girl who I'm in love with or
something, who calls me a dickhead when I see her or ignores me
completely, and who still hasn't replied to the note I left her three days ago.
Oh, and I'm now officially “dangerously underweight,” but I still feel like a
whale.
“I know,” I say.
“Max, I know this all must be very upsetting for you. But your mum
and dad both want what's best for you. They're both on your side, okay?”
“Okay,” I say. It's not okay, but I figure going along with what
Lindsay's saying is the best way of ending this conversation ASAP.
“And if you are worried about anything, you can contact me anytime.”
I don't say anything.
“So,” Lindsay says, trying to sound cheery again. “What have you got
planned for the rest of the summer?”
Well, gosh, Lindsay, I'm not sure. I thought I might join a lacrosse team
or start learning to play the flute. What does she want from me? I'm going
to sit in my room and read and play video games. Like always.
I shrug.
She doesn't miss a beat. “I'm going on holiday next week. To Devon.”
“Cool,” I say. It's kind of impressive how Lindsay can sustain a
conversation all by herself. “Have fun.”
“I'm taking my dog with me,” she says.
I look up. “I didn't know you had a dog,” I say. I know I'm being
tricked: This is a way to get me to talk. But I want to know about the dog.
Then I think: Could she have made up the dog? Is she allowed to lie to me,
like I lie to her? Are there rules about what psychologists can and can't say
to get gullible idiots like me to talk?
“I've got an Australian shepherd,” Lindsay says.
“Oh, cool,” I say. Except I mean it this time. “What's he called?”
“She's called Sheila,” Lindsay says.
I laugh. It's literally the first time I've laughed in a week. No, wait—the
second time. I laughed at Evie's letter, too. “Cool name. She should meet
Sultan some time.”
Lindsay beams at me. “That would be wonderful, Max. What breed is
Sultan again?”
“A red setter.”
“I love red setters,” she says, leaning forward in her chair. If she's lying
about wanting our dogs to meet, she's really bloody good at it.
I'm wondering if she's going to do an I-told-you-so. You see, Max?
There's still plenty to be happy about. Go play with your dog and smell the
roses. But she doesn't. She probably wants me to join the dots myself.
“Okay, Max, I think we should probably call it a day.”
Wait. What?
We haven't talked about my weight once. She weighed me at the start,
as usual, but she hasn't mentioned it at all. I've lost another pound since I
was last here. I figured I was at least going to get a lecture. I thought today
might be the day Lindsay decided I need inpatient treatment.
But … nothing. Has she made a mistake?
Hooray! Mission accomplished. Now get the hell out of there.
“Thanks for coming in today,” she says, getting up out of her chair.
“Say hello to Sultan for me, won't you?”
I've started making
22
a list of all the reasons why—everything I can
think of that could have nudged me in Ana's direction. It's not like I think
it's going to fix me. I'm starting to doubt that anything can fix me. But ever
since Italy, I've had this feeling, like, maybe if I understand better, I can
learn how to live with this. We can all learn how to live with Ana.
I haven't written any of it down. From now on, stuff like this stays in
my head. But that's okay. It turns out, Ana's made me pretty good at
remembering stuff. Finally, I get to use one of her weapons against her.
Reason #1
We're kind of health conscious, as a family. For example, I have never
knowingly eaten a meal at home that didn't contain at least one vegetable.
Most people would consider this a good thing. But I reckon you can take it
too far.
Reason #2
Food is never just food in my house. There's always a conversation. For
instance, did you know that almost all bananas are clones, and that in the
1920s, we used to have a tastier kind of banana, but it got wiped out by a
fungus? Probably not, right? But I did, because Dad talks about stuff like
this 24/7. I guess how I'd put it is, we always put a lot of focus on food.
I've been trained to think about where it comes from, who made it, what
they got paid. Again, this should be a good thing.
Reason #3
As well as being health conscious, we're also pretty particular. Especially
Dad. Sure, he never gets mad, but that's partly because everything in our
house is exactly the way he wants it to be. All of our books are
alphabetized. Our herbs and spices are alphabetized, for crying out loud.
Mum's a bit like this, too, and I think it's rubbed off on me, however much I
didn't want it to. When I see something slightly out of place, I get this
prickly feeling in my neck. I can't stop thinking about it until I've put it
right. (Robin is definitely not like this, by the way. When he was at home,
his bedroom looked like it had been raided by the FBI. I can't even imagine
what it's like now that he doesn't have Mum nagging at him all the time.)
Lindsay told me once that anorexia can be related to OCD: People who
have one often have the other. I don't have OCD, but I maybe have some of
the same traits. Like, when I was little, I always used to wash my hands in
this particular way: I'd rub the soap exactly four times across each hand—
first the back, then the palm. If I got it wrong, I had to start over. I kind of
grew out of it. Or maybe I didn't. Maybe it just grew into something else.
Reason #4
This isn't a new one, but … the money/waste thing. For a family who has
never been poor, we're totally neurotic about money. And the absolute
worst thing that can happen in our house is if we let some food go bad and
have to throw it away.
For me, the money part only really kicked in on that first trip to Italy.
But I'd probably sucked it up by osmosis before then. Now it's the main
thing I think about—when I'm not thinking about food, of course.
Reason #5
My parents want me to be an overachiever. Or to put it another way, they
want me to turn out different from Robin. Don't get me wrong: They've
never told me this. They never would. But it's true. There was this one
evening last year, right before I got ill. I overheard them. Dad was telling
Mum about how much I love zoology—which I guess is true—but made me
feel like a total dweeb. Anyway, Mum was like, Do you think we have a
science genius on our hands? Dad replied, It would be a nice change from a
creative genius, and they both started laughing. This was before Robin got
his apprenticeship, when he was just a guy who made the odd birdhouse but
didn't really know what to do with his life.
They wanted me to be the stable, sensible, high-flying one. The one
who alphabetizes his herbs and spices. The one who's always in control. In
which case, this year must have been the biggest letdown in history.
So there you have it. Five reasons why I turned out the way I did,
maybe. Do they add up to anorexia? Do they explain why Ana decided to
climb into my head? You wouldn't think so, right? Maybe there's some
extra element I'm forgetting. Some broken wiring in my brain I don't know
about.
What I do know is, I don't see any of these things changing. I'm not
sure I even want them to change. If finding a way to live with Ana means
changing who I am, what am I supposed to do?
So far, nothing. I've been to my cache twice since Tuesday. The book is still
there. My note's still there.
Third time lucky, right?
I've got Sultan with me today. Walking him is one of the few chores
Mum and Dad still ask me to do, but I usually take him to the quiet patch of
farmland behind our house, rather than the Common. Because when you're
out and about with Sultan, people come up and talk to you all the time. He's
too cute. In fact, even when I don't have him, they sometimes come up and
say, Where's Sultan?
Once we get to the heather on the far side of the lake, I reach down and
unclip his leash. He trots over to a clump of brambles twenty yards in front
of us, roots around. I assume he's looking for somewhere to pee, but when I
get closer, I realize he's eating the blackberries.
“You're a smart dog,” I tell him. He doesn't look up. When I was little,
we used to go blackberry picking every summer. I had always scarfed down
at least half of the blackberries by the time we got back. I consider
following Sultan's lead and eating some now. Maybe just one, for old time's
sake. I go through the numbers in my head, trying to figure out how many
calories are in one blackberry.
Too many.
I head toward the oak tree, calling to Sultan every so often so he doesn't
get too far behind.
Mum and Dad are planning something for tonight. I'm not sure what
exactly. Robin's coming over, and they asked me to make sure I was home
and showered by six. Like I have anywhere else to be. Okay, I said to Mum.
I'll see if I can squeeze you in.
It's still going to be there. I know it is. She's already got bored and
moved on. Or, alternative theory: She came, read the note, saw the book,
decided I was a psycho, and ran a mile.
Who could blame her?
I hear a scuffle and look up. Sultan's chasing a squirrel, hell for leather.
The squirrel zips up a tree, and Sultan stands at the bottom, barking,
showing it who's boss. He never managed to catch anything even when he
was young, and now, he moves much too slowly. But he'll keep trying. He
doesn't give up.
“Sultan!” I call. He ignores me the first time, and the second. “Sultan!
Sultan!” He looks up at me, like, Can't you see I'm busy?
“Suit yourself,” I say. I'm at the oak tree now. I boost myself up, reach
up to the hole, and pull out the box.
A stream of water pours onto my head and down my neck.
“Bollocks!” I shout.
For a moment, I'm confused. Then it comes back to me: the storm. Last
night, I woke up to the sound of rain punching at my window.
Someone didn't put the lid back on properly. They slid it into the groove
on one side, but not the other.
Was it me?
I slide the lid off with a jerk, pour out the water, then peer in.
The book is gone. And everything else is soaked.
Including a blue note.
“What's up, Grumpy
23
Guts?” Robin says, as soon as I walk through
the door. “You look like you've just kissed a trout.”
“I saw your car in the drive,” I reply. The thing with Robin is, you've
got to meet him head-on. Even if you don't feel like it. It's a universal law
of big brothers: If you give them an inch, they'll take a mile.
He crosses the kitchen to give me a hug. “Good to see you, little bro.”
I shrug. “You too. I guess. Is Dad home?”
“Not yet, love,” Mum shouts from the kitchen. Robin rolls his eyes at
me, to indicate that he disapproves of her listening to our conversation.
“He's stopping at Silk Dragon on his way home.”
I'd forgotten we were having takeaway, mainly because I'm not.
Takeaways are an anorexic's worst nightmare. They're greasy, the portions
are huge, and (even worse) inconsistent. I have a strict no-takeaways policy,
although I did agree to sushi once. Mum usually tries to persuade me to
have something, and we end up arguing about it for twenty minutes or so.
But today, she says right off the bat, Are you okay to have something from
the cupboard? So I'm having my go-to cupboard meal: half a can of Heinz
Cream of Tomato Soup, and two Ryvita Dark Rye Crispbreads.
Robin asks me if I want to play Mario Kart, so we do that for half an
hour until Dad gets back.
“You should come stay with me for a weekend,” Robin tells me, as we
hurtle through Bowser's Castle. He's playing as Koopa Troopa, as always.
I'm Yoshi. He'll win by about three seconds. It's pretty nice doing
something the same way we've always done it, where I know exactly what
to expect. It feels comfortable, like a pair of old jogger bottoms. I can
almost pretend things are how they used to be.
“Okay,” I say.
“Seriously. I've got a sleeping bag. There's this big wood near my flat,
it's probably full of caches.”
“Okay.”
Robin pauses the game, which is awful Mario Kart form. He looks at
me. “What's up?”
I don't look back. “Nothing.”
“Suit yourself.”
He unpauses, and we carry on playing in silence. I'm not trying to be
rude. I know Robin's being nice, as usual. But it's exhausting just trying to
think of things to say at the moment.
I'm still worrying about the letter. My first thought was that maybe I'd
be able to decipher it, but when I unfolded it I realized that was never going
to happen. I couldn't even make out a single word. It's a long letter: four
sheets of A4. It must've taken ages.
So, what do I do now? Write a reply, like, Sorry, but could you say that
again?
As if she'd bother. She's probably already regretting replying in the
first place. This is the perfect excuse for her to bail.
On the final lap, I'm actually ahead. Just. The course ends with this
massive staircase, then a big jump over a fire pit, then a sprint toward the
line. I'm on the home straight, when a red shell whacks me from behind,
and guess what? Robin beats me by three seconds.
“Thanks for coming,” Dad says when he sees Robin. It's weirdly
formal, like we're at a funeral or something.
Robin grins at him and nods, like, No problem, you weirdo.
Dad's carrying two massive paper takeaway bags. He heaves them onto
the kitchen table, then sits down. We sit down, too.
“Listen,” Dad says. We listen, but he doesn't actually say anything. He
folds and then unfolds his arms. Then crosses his legs.
“Shall we eat first?” Mum says eventually.
First. What's that supposed to mean? What else is happening?
They're finally going to shove you in a mental asylum.
Dad turns to Mum, looking relieved. “Okay.”
I microwave my soup while Mum and Dad sort out the takeaway.
Saying Dad over-ordered would be a bit like saying Antarctica is chilly. I
know I'm not the best judge, but we have a stupid amount of food,
including a whole crispy duck, three main dishes, prawn crackers, loads of
wontons, and spare ribs. All for three people. Mum empties all the
takeaway cartons onto plates. Most families would eat from the cartons, but
Mum hates the clutter, so everything goes onto plates and bowls. Mum then
spends an hour after we've eaten washing up. Naturally, because Dad is
Dad, this includes washing up the cartons so we can use them as storage
boxes. I know every family is weird, but I guarantee you mine is the
weirdest.
Before Ana arrived, Chinese was my favorite takeaway. And the thing I
loved most was prawn crackers. The takeaway we go to, Silk Dragon,
always gives you a massive bag, about the size of a parachute. I would've
happily eaten them all. I don't miss a lot of food, really. You kind of just
tune the idea of food out after a while.
But I miss prawn crackers.
We sit down to eat. The prawn crackers are right in front of me. I want
to have one. But … they're basically deep-fried flour. If you leave them in
the paper bag for half an hour, you can pretty see right through it from all
the grease. Plus, they're Robin's favorite, too. I try to think of it as a good
deed: I'm letting him polish off the whole bag. You're welcome, big bro.
I eat my soup and try not to think about it.
Robin's telling us about his latest project, which is a table made from
Japanese larch. He's got a lot to say about Japanese larch. Apparently, it has
so much resin in it that you don't need to treat it: The wood is self-oiling.
Robin seems to think this is an interesting fact.
“You don't even need to treat it,” he says, for maybe the fourth time.
I'm still nervous about what Mum said. Do they have something to tell
us? If they do, they don't seem to be in a hurry about it. Mum's picking at
her food, which always makes me really anxious, because anorexia is part
genetic. They found this out by studying twins. Identical twins are more
likely to share their anorexia than non-identical ones, which means it's not
just about your home environment.
If I'm vulnerable, Mum might be, too.
When they start treating you for anorexia, they always ask about your
family history. Has anyone in your family had an eating disorder? I said no,
but then I realized I had no idea. It's not the kind of thing you tell your kids
about, right? Maybe Mum was ill, too. Apparently, anorexics can be split
into three roughly equal-size groups: the third who die, the third who
recover completely, and the third who relapse. What if Mum used to be
sick, and she's come out the other end—and then I make her sick again?
She could do with losing a few pounds.
The thought hits me like a train. I hate myself for thinking it, even if it
isn't really me. I don't know anymore. Before I can do anything, I feel the
vomit coming. My eyes bulge.
“Max? What's wrong?”
I close my mouth as tight as I can, press my hands over it, and sprint to
the bathroom.
I'd barely touched my soup. You know when you're sick, and you want to
throw up, but there's nothing there? Retching on an empty stomach is even
worse than throwing up food. I spit. It feels like my whole digestive tract is
on fire.
“Everything okay in there?” Dad calls through the door.
Not really, I want to tell him. There are two thoughts running through
my head:
1. They're going to think I took something.
2. If Mum is sick, watching her son throw up probably isn't going to
help.
“I'm fine,” I say. It comes out so quiet, I'm not sure Dad will even hear
me through the door. But I don't have the energy to be any louder.
“Can I bring you some water?”
“Dad, I'm in a bathroom.”
“Okay,” Dad says again. He sounds a little sheepish, and I feel bad.
Loads of anorexics take stuff that makes them throw up or go to the loo.
I never have. But right now, Dad is standing outside, wondering if I've
started trying to destroy my body in a whole new way. And Mum might be
wondering about doing the same.
There's only one way to fix this: I have to let them know I'm all right. I
have to go out there, eat my soup, smile. Show them I'm in control.
“Hi, Dad,” I say as I come out of the bathroom. “Everything okay?”
“You tell me,” he says. He tilts his head and looks hard at me.
“I'm just a bit under the weather today,” I say. “But it's nothing to worry
about. Honest.”
He looks at me with that nervous smile I've gotten used to: that smile
that says, I love you, but I'm scared of you. I see the same smile on Mum's
face when I go back through to the dining room, and on Robin's. It's the
look you give a big dog off its leash: friendly but nervous, because you're
not quite sure what it'll do.
So I do what Robin would do: I make a joke. “Sorry about that.” I do
this big, obvious shrug. “I guess I didn't like your Japanese larch story very
much.”
Robin looks surprised for a second. I'm worried that I've misjudged
things, and he's going to be upset. There's a little pause. Then Mum grins
and turns to Robin. “He's only saying what everyone's thinking, love.”
And we all start laughing our heads off.
When we've finished eating, Dad packs all the spare food into cartons
and Tupperwares. And there's a lot of spare food. Pretty much half a duck,
for instance, and half of Mum's Kung Po chicken. I notice Robin's polished
off all of the prawn crackers, though. I offer to help clean up, because I like
knowing exactly what's in the fridge, but Dad tells me to stay and chat to
Robin.
“You say it like it's some kind of punishment, Dad,” Robin says.
“That depends on whether you're going to carry on telling him about
Japanese larch.”
Robin crosses his arms like, I've had enough of this.
“Leave him be, Joe,” Mum says. “Now, who wants a cup of tea?”
I feel good. It's weird: Twenty minutes ago, it was like the world was
going to end, and now, I'm having a great time. My mood's kind of like a
swift: It can zoom off in any direction, then change course in an instant.
Okay, it probably helped that Mum did eat some food in the end.
Robin looks at me like he's going to say something important.
Apparently, everyone's in this kind of mood today.
“What?” I ask him. He doesn't respond. “Robin, what?”
He thumbs in the direction of the living room, where my Nintendo is.
“Rematch?”
Guess what? Robin wins again, using the exact same cheap and cynical
technique: a shell in my back right before the finish line.
“I hate Mario Kart,” I say. “And you're a terrible person.”
“I know, little bro,” he says. He pats me on the back, then scoots away
before I can punch him.
We drift back into the dining room and sit down with our cups of tea. At
which point, Dad gets all serious again. “So, I wanted us … we wanted us
all to have a nice meal together, because we've got some news. Nothing
bad.” He glances at Mum. “I mean, uh …”
Mum cuts in to save him. “I think what your father means is, it's
nothing you need to worry about.”
“Exactly,” Dad says.
“I'm on tenterhooks here,” Robin says, and rolls his eyes at me.
But I'm not finding it funny. Something in the way Mum and Dad are
acting has put me on edge.
“As you know,” Dad carries on, ignoring Robin. He's speaking in little
bursts, with long pauses. He sounds like a hermit who's trying to talk for
the first time in years. “Your mum and I … we've been going through …
well, a bit of a rough patch lately.”
I glance over at Robin. A second ago, he was slumped back in his chair,
grinning. Now, he's sat up straight, with this ultra-serious look on his face.
“We love each other very much,” Dad says. “But we've decided we
need to spend some time apart.”
“What do you mean?” Robin says.
Isn't it obvious? I want to scream at him.
Maybe Robin knows exactly what Dad means, he just doesn't want to
believe it. On the other hand, I really don't want to have it spelled out. I'm
holding on to some tiny, stupid hope that they don't mean what I think they
mean. It's like when you know you've given a wrong answer in a test: You
don't want to look at the scores, because then there's a chance. If they don't
explain, there's a chance this isn't happening.
Too late. Mum gives Robin this stern look and says, “From now on,
your dad and I are going to live our own lives. Separately.”
“Oh,” Robin says. “Shit.”
“Language,” Dad says. But you can tell from the way he says it he
doesn't exactly mind, given the circumstances.
For the second time this evening, I want to throw up. But this time,
somehow—God knows how—I hold it in. I hold in the questions, too. More
than anything, I want to ask: What about me? What happens to me? But if I
wasn't ready to hear the other thing, I'm certainly not ready for that.
They are going to get rid of you so bloody fast.
I try not to listen. I picture myself taping her mouth shut and throwing
her down a well.
There's one more question, too: an even scarier one. It bounces around
inside me, squeezing my organs, kicking me in the stomach, making me
feel even more horrible than I already did. Which is kind of impressive. The
thing is, with this one, I definitely know the answer. There's no fooling
myself when it comes to the scariest thought of all. I look at Robin, and he
catches my eye, and I know he's thinking the exact same thing I am.
It's my fault.
They're breaking up because of me.
I open the fridge.
The orange glow pours out onto me. The kitchen's dark, except for the
light from the fridge. It feels a bit like I'm standing in front of an alien
spaceship.
Right now, I'm totally cool with being abducted and flown off to Mars.
Robin left in a hurry after dinner, mumbling something about an early
start—even though, when he was telling us about Project Larch, he said
they couldn't do anything tomorrow because they were waiting for more
wood to be delivered. But I don't really blame him for not wanting to stick
around.
It must be really late. The main road runs twenty yards behind our back
garden, and you can normally hear the odd car going past, even late at
night. But now there's nothing.
I start taking boxes out of the fridge, all of the leftovers from last night.
There's three bits of sesame toast, some sweet-and-sour pork, some beef
and black bean noodles. Plus the duck and a whole thing of rice.
I pour it all out onto a plate.
I look at it.
I gulp.
There's so much food: one huge mound that domes out of the plate like
Mount Fuji. Enough for at least two normal people and at least five of me.
But I have to eat it.
Because if I eat it, things are okay.
I'm okay.
Our house won't feel like a prison anymore.
And who knows, maybe our family will stay together.
I'm not stupid. I know it's not going to change things overnight. But if
the problem goes away—if I pack Ana's bags and kick her out of the door
and never let her back in, Mum and Dad could change their minds.
I want to eat it. I want this to all be over. I want to be able to sit down
and eat a takeaway with my family, like a normal functioning human being.
I want to shove chocolate bars into my mouth and swap sandwiches with
my friends. I want to go over to people's houses sometimes, or go to the
cinema and eat popcorn. I want to play rugby, even if I'm shit at it. And this
Christmas, I want to eat loads and then sleep all afternoon, like everyone
else does, like you're supposed to, and not worry about it.
And the only way that's going to happen is if I make it happen.
I start eating.
And I don't stop.
I guess bulimics
24
know how this feels. But I don't. I've never felt like
this, not really. The closest I've got is stuffing a Mini Roll in my mouth and
swallowing it whole. I felt a rush then: a moment of pure bliss as it slipped
down my throat, Ana struck dumb, for once, by the shock of it. After three
seconds, the panic hit me. Grabbed me. I took the packet and shoved it into
the back of the kitchen cupboard, then ran out of the house to stop myself
from giving in. To put myself in control again.
This is that Mini Roll, times a million.
My first-ever binge.
My jaw moves without me thinking about it, like those mechanical ones
they use to cut people out of cars. Robotic. Relentless. I feel the lumps of
food in my throat—big, ragged lumps, because I'm not chewing. I picture a
snake with a series of mouse-shaped lumps along its body.
I bite my cheek, and for a second, I want to scream, but I don't. I control
myself. See? I'm still in control. It doesn't stop me. Nothing can stop me.
Chew, chew, chew, swallow. All of the duck has gone. I start on the rice.
Now there are two voices inside my head: Ana has developed a split
personality. My mental health problem has her own mental health problem.
Stop. Stop. STOP. What are you doing? You're disgusting. You're
ruining everything.
Keep going. It feels good, admit it. It feels so good to finally EAT. And if
you keep it up, your family will love you again.
No—they'll be ashamed of you. Fat, hopeless you. What happened?
You used to have willpower.
They can't love you while you're anorexic. They won't. You've got to
show them you're okay.
This isn't okay. This is disgusting. And you have no idea how much
you're going to regret it.
Five minutes later—probably less—I'm done. The duck, the wontons,
the prawn toast—it's all gone. And for a moment, I feel this rush, like, I did
it. I won!
Then the pain starts.
When you stop eating, your stomach becomes less elastic. It can't
expand like it used to. So if you barely put anything in it for an entire year,
and then sit down and eat two days' worth of food in one sitting, you're in
trouble.
Snakes can do it. Polar bears can do it. We can't.
The cramps make me double over. I feel like my guts are about to
explode all over the floor. I hate myself. And I don't know what to do.
What did I tell you?
I crawl over to the sink, grab the edge, drag myself up. I stick my
fingers down my throat. I retch, but nothing comes.
You're rubbish at that, remember? You can't do anything right.
I grab my phone, and google how to make yourself sick. The first hit is
this herbal remedy website that tells you to drink a mixture of mustard and
water.
So I do.
It's one of the worst things I've ever tasted. But it works. I'm pretty sure
no one's ever been this happy about throwing up before. It feels amazing. It
hurts, but I don't care: I've not been this happy for ages. Because now I
know the secret. I know how to pretend to be normal. How to stay in
control, forever. Now I can show Mum and Dad I'm okay. They don't need
to know that I'm spewing my guts up every night. I feel like an
archaeologist who's just discovered a lost city he's been searching for his
whole life.
Then I turn around and see Dad.
Before I even clock what's happening, he's hugging me, and I'm crying
into his shoulder. “We're going to fix this,” he whispers in my ear. And I try
to pretend he's talking about him and Mum, as well as me. But I know he
isn't.
A conversation I had with Robin, before things got really bad (I thought
they were already really bad at the time. But they weren't):
Robin: Do you remember Mum's stopwatch?
I shake my head.
Robin: It was the only way she could get you to do anything when you
were little.
It comes back to me gradually, like a ship through mist. When I was
little, I put stuff off for hours. Getting up, finishing my tea—anything.
But if Mum bet me I couldn't get dressed for school in thirty seconds, I'd
be ready in twenty-nine.
Me: Don't put this all on me, Robin. She used it on you too.
Robin: True. She had that lanyard so she could take it everywhere. You
know, I wish she'd used it when I was doing my A-levels. Maybe I
would've got that A in math then.
I guess Mum's lesson didn't change Robin. But it changed me. Now I
count time like I count calories: day in, day out. I can't stop. I count my
steps as I walk, and I count the number of days left in the year. When I can't
face doing anything else or I can't be bothered, I sit in my room, close my
eyes, and start the stopwatch on my phone, and see how close I can get to a
minute counting in my head. Usually, I'm a second or two too slow. Even
though I know I'm usually a second or two too slow, I can't seem to adjust
for it: No matter what I do, it always comes out that way. Like the world is
moving too fast for me. Like I'm always chasing things, and I never have
time to catch my breath.
It's one week until I go back to school. At the start of the holidays, there
were forty-three days on the clock. I thought it was enough time to fix
myself—or at least, to start fixing myself. I thought, if I tried really hard,
somehow, I'd be able to catch up.
But when it came down to it, the opposite happened. The universe said,
Thanks for trying, Max. But, um, no. Sorry. Robin left. Mum and Dad broke
up. The world is running away from me faster than ever.
I keep speeding up. I keep trying. But I can feel myself fading. Like
when you sprint toward the line at the end of a race and your legs start to
burn, your body starts to scream no at you. You know you can only keep
going for so long. You know you're on borrowed time.
Or maybe it's Zeno's Paradox. Maybe no matter how far I go, how fast I
go, I'll never catch up.
My body is breaking in slow motion. I cut myself three weeks ago,
chopping a carrot, when we were in Italy, and it still hasn't healed. If you
starve yourself for months, eventually, your body starts giving up.
You can't keep running forever.
One week later. To be exact, 159 hours. In that time, an average adult male
would have burnt 13,250 calories. Not me, though. Because I haven't left
this room in a week. Because I weigh a grand total of —.
You don't need to eat anything. Pinch your skin. See? That's fat.
That's pure blubber. There's enough there to last for weeks. Months,
probably.
“Hey, buddy,” Dad says from the doorway. “Can I come in?”
He doesn't wait for a reply, probably because he knows he isn't getting
one. He closes the door behind him and walks over to my bed.
“I brought you some breakfast,” he says.
I don't need to look. It's a pot of Shape Up Smooth Strawberry Yoghurt.
Four ounces. That's pretty much all I can stomach at this point. Sometimes,
I can't even bring myself to eat that.
“You okay?”
I shrug.
I don't get out of bed. I can't sleep. Mostly, I stare at the walls. I never
did get around to putting those posters up.
Yeah, you're totally okay! This is exactly how a normal teenager
spends their summer. Nothing about this situation screams “freak” at
all.
Dad sits down on the edge of the bed. “Listen, I wanted to talk to you
about something.”
I turn to face him. It takes a while. I have to use my arms to lever
myself over. I feel like a whale trying to unbeach itself.
“What's going on?” I mumble.
“I've found a flat,” he says.
And it's like that moment on a roller coaster when you think you've
reached the bottom, but there's another secret drop. It turns out it's possible
to feel even worse than I already did.
“It's right around the corner,” he carries on. “You can come over
whenever you like.”
“That's what Robin said,” I say.
“Max,” Dad says, in a pained voice. He pinches the bridge of his nose.
Until now, I hadn't really clocked how tired he looks. “Your brother is just
trying to settle into his new home. Anyway, my place is only a five-minute
walk away.”
I don't reply. I feel bad, because I know Dad's trying his best, but it's
taking all my effort not to scream. I don't have any left over for saying the
things I'm supposed to say. I lie back down in the bed.
Dad stares at me for the longest time. I'm waiting for him to say
something about how it's all going to be okay or ask me if I want to watch
Springwatch with him later or something. But he just walks out and softly
closes the door behind him. I guess he's used up all his effort, too.
Afterward, I realize it's the longest conversation I've had in two days.
August 30
Dear Ana,
At the start of the year, I told you there were six people in
my life. But then Robin left, and then Dad. And when Dad
left, Mum turned into a zombie.
I was supposed to go see Lindsay yesterday, but I guess
Mum forgot. I didn't say anything. I know how these things
work: NHS referrals are like gold dust now. Once you've
missed your appointment, you're stuffed.
And there's no way Stu, Ram, or Evie are going to talk
to me when I go back to school. If I even make it back to
school.
I'm supposed to be the one who's disappearing. But as I
do, everyone around me melts away too.
I guess this was your plan all along, right?
I don't care though. It's easier this way. It's easier to
stay in control when there's no one bothering me. It's easier
to be me when no one's trying to fix me.
After I write this, I'm going outside for the first time
in two weeks, to get rid of the last thing connecting me to
the world: my cache. I've already taken the listing down. But
apparently, it can take a month to update in some people's
apps. And anyway, that doesn't stop people who already know
where it is from finding it. Like Evie, for instance.
I'll be back soon. Then it'll just be me and you. No one
else gets it. We're better off on our own.
The wind on
25
the Common howls through my clothes and into my
joints. I ache all over, like I'm eighty years old.
I walk like an eighty-year-old, too. Slowly, warily, because I'm afraid of
tripping over a tree root and shattering my bones. I'm still out of breath,
though.
My body's started to properly give up. When I try to stand, my legs
judder underneath me, and I imagine them snapping like twigs. I can't even
do a single bloody push-up anymore. And when I comb my hair, more and
more seems to come out, each strand as brittle as a piece of Shredded
Wheat. Noticing this put me off Shredded Wheat forever.
But wait. That's not even the gross stuff.
Gross Thing Number One: My pee has gone sort of … foamy. Seriously,
it happens. When your kidneys are so screwed they can't filter out protein
anymore, your pee goes foamy. It looks like the old-man cider Dad drinks
sometimes.
Gross Thing Number Two: If I put my hand to my mouth and smell my
breath, it's like sweet and sour. Tangy. Fruity. That's the smell of dissolving
fat. We did this in biology once. It's called ketosis: When your body runs
out of sugar, it starts burning fat. As Dr. Roberts put it, Ketosis is what your
body does when it has no other choice. It's like burning your table and
chairs to keep warm, because you've already chopped down all the trees.
Gross Thing Number Three: This is the worst one by far. I'm turning
into a monkey. There are little hairs growing all over my body, the kind
newborn babies sometimes have. I can't believe this is my life. I'm fifteen,
and half the boys in my class already have beards or at least mustaches, and
I'm growing peach fuzz on my face.
Oh, and for some reason, my ankles and knees are swollen. Probably
some other fun side effect I don't even know about yet.
Anorexia happens when you're not looking. It's like that game you play
when you're little, where you have to sneak up on someone and freeze
whenever they turn around. As soon as you let your guard down, it pounces.
Because you can always eat less. You can always take away one piece, one
mouthful, one calorie. That slice of toast can be slightly thinner. That can of
soup can be two portions instead of three. You do that over and over again
until you can't survive on what's left.
I've made this journey hundreds of times. Across a shimmering carpet
of meadow grass and rye, dotted with purple patches of heather. Past the
lake, where the ducks look as unhappy to be outside as I am, and into the
birch woods. The leaves are starting to turn already; I guess it's been a long
summer. The trees are preparing for a winter without food, where the only
way to survive is to manage with less.
If only it were that easy. If only I could just drop my leaves and wait for
things to get better.
The oak tree looms over me. I cower away from it, like it's about to
attack me or something. I feel dizzy. All right, I always feel dizzy. But this
is way worse than my usual haven't-eaten-a-proper-meal-in-months dizzy.
It's more the-world-is-a-giant-washing-machine dizzy. I'm pretty sure I'm
going to chuck my guts up, even though I haven't eaten anything at all for
twenty-four hours.
I stop.
I bend over, rest my hands on my knees. Then I decide even that's too
much effort. I slump down on the carpet of leaves that's already forming on
the forest floor. The ground is harder than I thought it would be; as I hit the
dirt, I hear something snap.
And then I realize I can't get up.
September 1
Dear Ana,
When I first saw Lindsay, she told me that the way to deal
with anorexia is to focus on “rational beliefs” about food.
It's like, if I can distance myself from it, it won't hurt me
anymore.
That's why I tried to think of you as someone else. I
gave you a name, and wrote all these letters, to convince
myself that you weren't me.
But that was never how it felt. Not really. When the
voice inside my head said, “Don't eat that. You'll thank me
later,” it never really felt like it was coming from someone
else. From Ana. Because it wasn't. They were my thoughts.
My opinions. My head.
I reckon that's why people with mental health problems
get annoyed when other people talk about “voices in your
head.” Because those voices are your voice—and that makes
them way, way scarier.
“There's still fat on your stomach. You could drop
another pound, easy.”
“Don't give in. Don't eat that. You're better than that.”
“The less you eat, the stronger you are.”
You don't exist, Ana. And I have zero clue where that
leaves me.
On my own, I guess.
“Come on, love,
26
time to wake up.”
“Ugh.”
For a moment, I have no idea where I am. Or who's talking to me. Or
what's going on. My head feels like it's full of treacle and cotton wool, and
I'm pretty sure there are razor blades jabbing into my lower back.
“Come on, otherwise the day will get ahead of us, won't it?”
It's Mum. She always says this: The day will get ahead of us. Robin
always used to respond, The day can do what it likes, I'm staying in bed.
I wince at the metallic screech of the curtains being pulled back. Light
pours into the room. I scrunch my eyes tight.
“Max,” Mum says.
“Okay, okay,” I mumble.
Slowly, I come to my senses. I unscrunch my eyes, just a little, and see a
blurry Mum hovering at the end of my bed. She comes over to my bedside
table and tidies the books into a neat pile.
“Oh God,” I say. “It's today.”
“It's going to be okay,” Mum replies immediately. She was obviously
waiting for me to realize.
Today is September 2: the first day of school. The day that's been
approaching forever, like a train hurtling across a huge plain, getting closer
so slowly you barely notice, until it's right there. Today's the day I'm
supposed to face everyone: Ram, Stu, Darren, Shinji, my teachers. And
Evie.
I've gone through the conversation a hundred times in my head. They'll
ask me what I've been doing all summer, and I'll tell them not too much,
normal stuff, and act like everything's fine. Or fine-ish. And then I'll have
to pretend I'm interested when they start telling me about their summers.
How Ram went on holiday with his mum, then came home for one night,
then went away with his dad, which was much better. How the camper Stu's
family rented broke down somewhere near Inverness, meaning they had to
spend a night in the woods, in the pitch-black, and he was pretty sure he
heard a wolf, even though there haven't been wolves in Scotland since the
seventeenth century.
Except they won't. I won't. It's not going to happen.
Because I'm not going to school today.
Mum's now making small talk with the old man in the bed opposite me,
Bill, who has some kind of bladder infection.
“You know the community garden plots down on Sherbourn Road?”
Bill is saying. “I've had one of them for thirty-two years.”
“Gosh!” Mum says, like she is stunned by this fact. “What do you
grow?”
“All sorts. Tomatoes, cucumbers, carrots, potatoes. Loads of beans. The
only problem is, it all needs harvesting now, and I'm stuck in here.”
“Oh no!” Mum says. “Isn't there anyone who can pick them for you?”
Mum can be invested in someone else's life within ten seconds of
meeting them. The other night, when we were eating (or not eating, in my
case) takeaway, Mum said to us, Remember Sandra the florist? Her
daughter's having another baby. It turned out she'd met Sandra for less than
ten minutes, two years before, in the supermarket, and never seen her since.
But Mum still wanted to send a card to congratulate her. Robin said, She'll
think you're mental.
Bill shrugs. “I've tried to get my wife to go, but she says I've got bigger
fish to fry right now.”
Mum looks horrified. “I'll talk to my other son, Robin. Maybe he can
help. Which plot was it again?”
I shake my head, smile a little. I haven't seen Mum like this for ages.
Soft as chalk, as Dad puts it. When Dad's here, he mostly sits by my bed
and reads, or plays cards with me when I'm awake. But Mum spends the
whole time talking to other patients. If you walked in, you probably
wouldn't guess who she was here for. I kind of prefer it this way. I don't
know what to say to Dad half the time.
The downside is, when she leaves, they talk to me about her. She's nice
your mum, isn't she? And so on. The worst was Paul, who was definitely
flirting with Mum. They were laughing their heads off about nothing for a
good hour. I stared at Mum, trying to get across a Dad-hasn't-even-movedall-his-stuff-out-yet vibe. She kept giving me these guilty glances. When
she left, Paul said to me, Your mum's great, you know. What a firecracker. I
didn't even respond to him: I just turned to face the wall. Luckily, Paul only
had kidney stones, which meant he was in and out in a day.
Bye-bye, knobhead.
When they brought me in, the doctors diagnosed me with acute renal
failure. Basically, my kidneys gave up completely. (That snap I heard? I
asked Dr. Singh, the kidney specialist, about it. She said, Um, maybe you
fell on a twig?) It wasn't so bad that I needed dialysis: They just put me on
an IV drip. I spent the first two days on that, trying not to think about how
many calories are in it.
Now I'm off the drip and on a restricted carbohydrate diet, which
basically means lots of toast. Renal failure happens when there's too much
salt and protein in your lungs, so the treatment is basically just to eat toast
and porridge and drink water until things calm down. I asked for some
peanut butter on my toast, and they told me it had too much protein in it.
That's right: I actually asked for extra food, without anyone telling me I had
to. And they said no.
They let me have jam instead, though.
For the first time in a whole year, I don't feel hungry. I just feel …
normal, I guess. Except it's not at all normal to me. It's like when you're
used to wearing a watch, and then you forget it one day and your wrist feels
weird. You get used to stuff and only really notice when something
changes.
I'm allowed to get up and walk around the ward, as long as there's
someone with me, and I have enough energy to do it. I'm getting better. I
can now concentrate on one thing long enough to read a book or have a
conversation. Yesterday Dr. Singh said she thinks I could be out in a couple
of days. I can probably go back to school next week. Lindsay and the
nutritionist are coming to the ward later today, to help me figure out a plan.
Which is, like, GULP.
It's easy enough to go along with everything while I'm in the hospital. I
follow the rules; I don't really have a choice. Also, there are no mirrors,
which definitely helps. But when I'm back at home, and have to make it
work all by myself, and forget all the habits and tricks I've come up with
over the past year … I don't know how I'll cope. But I don't exactly have a
choice.
Either I learn how to eat, or I die.
“Hey, little bro.”
As usual, I do my best to ignore him. I'm reading a book about Walter
Rothschild, who's one of the most famous zoologists ever. It's pretty
interesting. Once, he rode a zebra-drawn carriage to Buckingham Palace, to
prove that zebras can be tamed.
“I brought you a present,” Robin says cheerily, as if I've acknowledged
him in some way already.
I make him wait another ten seconds, just because, then turn around.
“Hi,” I say. “Um, thanks for coming.”
The light's starting to fade. I'm guessing it's like 5:00 or 6:00 p.m.
Mum left at noon. She told me, I need to pop into work for a bit, but I'll be
back this evening. And your dad's coming first thing tomorrow. My plan to
be less of a burden on my family isn't going so well.
Robin shrugs and raises the coffee cup in his hand. “As you know, I'm
mainly here for Suzanne.”
“The girl in the coffee shop?” Robin talked about her last time he was
here. In fact, he talked about little else.
“The very same.”
“You know her name now,” I say. “That's a start.”
Robin puts a hand to his chest and closes his eyes. “Suzanne and I are
taking things slowly. We don't want to rush into anything.”
“Clearly,” I say. “Anyway, what happened to Ffion?”
Robin bites his lip. “She, um, wanted to rush into something.”
I frown. “So, what's my present?”
Robin gives the guy in the bed next to me a sideways glance. There are
six beds in my room, and five of them are occupied right now, including
mine. I realize that everyone is looking at Robin, curious to find out what
he's brought me. He doesn't seem to be carrying anything.
“Er,” he says. “Fancy a walk?”
Robin doesn't want to go to the café where Suzanne works. He says he
doesn't want to seem too keen.
“It's probably a bit late for that,” I tell him.
He doesn't respond. We walk the corridors in silence for a while.
“The day you came here …,” Robin says eventually. But he
immediately peters out.
It was Robin who found me. It was the first thing Mum told me when I
woke up. We said you were missing, and he ran right off. Goodness knows
how he knew where you were. That's how I knew Robin hadn't said
anything about the cache. He hasn't mentioned it to me so far, either. All he
said about finding me was, You've got to stop passing out on me, little bro. I
know you're skinny, but carrying you around is a pain.
“After we put you in an ambulance, I went back to find your cache.”
For some reason, my throat goes dry, like someone's asked me to give a
speech in front of a thousand people or told me they've got naked pictures
of me that they're going to post on the Internet. I'm not sure why I'm
nervous—after all, it was Robin who got me into the whole thing. And it's
not like any of my diary entries were still in there. It had been empty for
weeks.
“How come?” I croak.
“I figured that's where you were headed. And since you hadn't exactly
been out and about much lately, I figured there might have been, y'know, a
good reason.”
I take a second to respond. “Yeah,” I say. I'm looking at the floor, which
is polished so bright I can almost see my face in it. Am I imagining it or do
my cheeks look rounder? To be fair, compared to how I looked a week ago,
even a supermodel would look like a guinea pig.
Or maybe that's just what I want to tell myself.
“Well, someone left you a note.”
Robin holds his arm out. I go to take the thing he's holding and notice
my hand is shaking. It's—guess what?—a blue note, folded up inside a little
plastic bag, one of the ones you pinch at the top to make it airtight. And
watertight. Does that mean she knows my cache got soaked, and I never got
her last note? Does it mean she knew I wouldn't be able to get back there
anytime soon?
Robin clears his throat and shifts his weight between his feet. “Is
everything all right, Max?”
Robin doesn't usually call me by my actual name. I stare at him in a
has-my-brother-gone-loopy way. “Um … you know we're in a hospital,
right?”
He grins, but it almost looks like a grimace because he's frowning, too.
Something's obviously on his mind. “No, I mean … with the cache. No
one's bothering you or anything?”
He thinks I'm being bullied. He's upset and nervous because he thinks
the cache is making me like this, making things worse, and it's all his fault.
“Nope,” I say. “No one's bullying me.”
“Are you sure?”
“I promise.”
Lindsay says she is delighted with my progress. The nutritionist, Dr. Siskin,
who isn't my usual nutritionist, agrees. The renal specialist, Dr. Singh, is
here, too. The three musketeers. I feel pretty embarrassed that I'm taking up
three doctors' time. We're in a consulting room off the main corridor of my
ward. It's tiny: If I lie down on the floor, I'd touch both walls, like in
Robin's flat. And I'm boxed in on three sides by people wearing white
coats. It's pretty stressful.
Lindsay weighed me before we came in here. She wouldn't let me see
the scales: She says we really need to focus on getting my weight up now,
and she understands how difficult it is, yada yada. Given how happy she
and Dr. Siskin are, it's not exactly rocket science: I've put on loads of
weight.
I don't mind, though. Or at least, I don't mind as much as I would have
a week or a month or even six months ago.
Anorexia kills. It's the first thing you find if you google it: Anorexia is
the most deadly mental health problem in the world, bar none. And kidney
failure is the biggest cause of death. You still never think it's going to
happen to you, though. Even when it's really bad, and you really want it to.
When you're desperate for all of the pain to end. It's weird. You
simultaneously think, I'm never ever going to get better and I can't cope
with another day of this and I'm never going to be one of the ones who
actually DIES. I swear, anorexia is mostly about finding a way to hold five
thoughts that all contradict one another together in your head. I got really
good at it. But near killing myself has changed things. A bit. So I'm trying
my best to go along with the whole don't-tell-Max-how-much-he-weighs
routine.
“So what happens next?” I ask.
Lindsay looks at Dr. Siskin, who nods.
“Well, Max, that's sort of up to you.”
“What do you mean?”
“We're here to help you get better. Now, some people with anorexia
prefer to do that while living with their families. But I know things with
your family are tough at the moment.”
I almost reply, Only because of me, but I stop myself, because I know it
would make me sound even more selfish, even though I don't mean it like
that. La-la-la, it's all about me!
“What else can I do?”
“Everyone's recovery is different,” Lindsay says. And some people don't
recover at all, I think. I know why she does it, but it annoys me how
Lindsay doesn't even acknowledge the alternative. It makes me feel like a
child. “Some people find the best environment for them to recover in is …
away from their home.”
“A residential treatment facility,” says Dr. Siskin.
“Like a hospital?”
“It's much more relaxed than a hospital,” Lindsay says. She smiles.
“More like a youth hostel.”
Yeah, right, I think. “How long would I be there for?”
“It depends how you get on,” Lindsay says. “We'll do an assessment
every week. It could be a couple of weeks. It could be a little longer.”
That means months. Or years.
“What do you think I should do?” I ask her.
I can see Lindsay biting her lip. She doesn't want to give me an answer.
I turn to the others, to see if they will. But they all look at me with these
dumb, patronizing grins. Professional grins that don't give you a clue what
they're thinking.
I've spent the past year obsessing about being in control of everything.
And over the past few days, I've had to give up some of that control. And
it's felt … good. Better than it did before.
And now they're asking me to make a decision that could kill me, or
save my life. I feel like screaming at them. I don't want to be in control of
this. Just tell me what to do.
Please, just tell me what to do.
Last Christmas, I
27
thought that was the hardest it could get. I was
wrong. Today is harder. It's like climbing a mountain, and thinking you've
nearly reached the top, then seeing the summit curve slowly away from
you. There's still miles to go.
I weighed myself this morning. I couldn't help it. Mum and Dad hid the
scales months ago, but I know where they are: in the airing cupboard, under
the beach towels. I grabbed them and rushed into the bathroom before I
could change my mind.
I've put on three pounds since we went on holiday.
At first, I was horrified. My stomach did a few somersaults, and I
started wondering whether, if I tried to throw up, I could get rid of any of
last night's dinner. I'm disgusting. No girl will ever like me. My parents
must be so ashamed of me.
But I was prepared. I was ready to deal with this situation. This is a
good thing, this is a good thing, I told myself over and over, doing my best
to drown out the bad thoughts.
Now, I'm standing in front of the mirror, naked. And I can see things
I've never seen before.
Fun fact: Anorexia literally changes the way you see things. There's this
study they did, where they asked anorexics to judge the size of their bodies
in the mirror. I'm not sure where I read about it. Anyway, it turns out that
it's not just about wanting to be thin. We—by which I mean, anorexics—
literally can't see how thin we are. When I take my clothes off and stand in
front of the mirror, I see a different naked body from the one you'd see, if
you were standing there, too. The limbs look thicker. The ribs don't stick
out as much. Sometimes, even your own eyes lie to you.
Two weeks ago, when I looked in the mirror, all I saw was the curve of
my belly. I'd pinch my skin and pull it away from my arm and think, There
must be fat under there. As if having skin is proof that you're fat. But now
it's different. I lean in close to look at my face, and I can see the shadows
under my eyes where the flesh in my cheeks has melted away. I never
noticed them before. When I step back, I see how far my ribs jut out now,
like the bars on a xylophone, casting zebra shadows across my body. I see
the veins like rivers on my hands and forearms, and think to myself, Oh my
God, I look like a piece of blue cheese.
Okay, so it's not exactly news that I'm thin. I've known I'm thin all
year. It's pretty obvious when the slightest breeze takes the warmth out of
your body in seconds, or when you can't sit on a bench because it hurts
your ass too much. But now I feel thin. Even though I've put on two pounds
in a week. Even though Ana is telling me I'm a zeppelin. Now I know she's
talking bollocks.
I stand in front of the mirror and say it out loud. To myself, to Ana, to
the skeleton staring back at me. “Max, you're skinny.”
I think for a second, then I add, “And today will be different.”
Ram and Evie aren't in my homeroom, but Stu is. I arrive before him and
sit at a desk in the corner, as far away from everyone else as possible. No
one says anything to me, although when Shinji walks in, he does that thing
where he just tuts and rolls his eyes, like, Insulting you really isn't worth my
time, sorry, which makes me feel super-great.
Lindsay and I have come up with three rules for me to follow. Rule One
is, if I'm having a bad day, I go straight to Miss Madeley, the school nurse.
Do not pass go, do not collect two hundred pounds. She's even given me
her mobile number. I've known Miss Madeley since first year, when Stu
wiped out playing football, and she came with us to the hospital. She's
pretty nice.
Rule Two is, stick to the menu. Lindsay says it's important that I learn
to manage my own eating—but for now, she wants to make sure I settle in
smoothly. So she's literally written me a meal-by-meal menu, like she did
for Christmas last year. (I've really moved on in the past ten months, hey?)
Only this time, there's way more food for me to eat, and a strict schedule to
stick to: 11 a.m.—one Go Ahead! Yoghurt Break; one banana. 1 p.m.—one
ham sandwich (two slices of bread, one slice of ham, spread); one Mars bar
(or equivalent chocolate bar); one apple. It's a scary amount of food. But
on the other hand, it's kind of nice not to have to think about it.
Because I'm an idiot, I've sat around the corner from the door, and Stu
doesn't see me when he comes in. He's with a load of people from football.
I guess they had practice this morning. He sits down with them at the front.
I can feel my cheeks burning red-hot, as if I'd dropped my pants in front of
the whole class. It's not like I've actually done anything embarrassing.
Except for Shinji, no one's even noticed I'm there. But I feel like the
biggest loser in the whole world. Like some desperate puppy, waiting for
Stu to notice me.
I count to ten under my breath. This is Rule Three, count to ten. Lindsay
says that if you can deal with something for ten seconds, nothing can touch
you. Because once you get to the end of the ten seconds, you can always
add another ten and another ten and so on. The whole of human history can
be broken down into ten-second chunks. You're only ten seconds away
from Darwin or the pharaohs or dinosaurs. I'm not that sure about Rule
Three, mainly because it involves more counting, and obsessive counting
hasn't exactly gone well for me recently. But I have to admit, once my ten
seconds are up, I feel a bit less like jumping out of the window.
I still don't have the nerve to go up to Stu's group, though. At the end of
attendance, I slink out hoping no one will notice me.
God, am I a loser or what?
Things don't get any better after registration. I look at my schedule, and
realize my first double-period is PE. I've got all psyched up about finally
facing everyone—but instead, I'll be spending the next hour and a half
sitting quietly in Mrs. Braithwait's office.
This was actually my idea. I figured that, sooner or later, someone was
going to find out about the whole running-during-PE thing. And if I just had
to stand around while everyone else did PE … I mean, I may as well have
the word FREAK tattooed on my forehead. I asked if I could go somewhere
and do homework during PE lessons instead. I didn't know that that
somewhere would be five feet away from the assistant principal.
I knock on Mrs. Braithwait's door at 9:01, and she says, “Enter,” in this
deep, booming voice, like the Wizard of Oz. Mrs. Braithwait is kind of oldschool. She wears these bonkers tartan twin sets, and her hair looks like one
giant Lego. It never moves. I'm not sure I've ever seen her smile, either.
When you first meet her, she kind of seems like the schoolmistress in some
Victorian novel. You can imagine her rapping orphans on their wrists with a
ruler. I remember saying this when I came home from my first day at
Deanwater. Robin told me I'd got her all wrong. Okay, she doesn't smile
much, he said. But she's always got your back. Trust me, Mrs. Braithwait is
the coolest. I never asked him what she did to get in his good books.
“Max,” she says when I open the door. Not Hi, Max or Oh, look, it's
Max. Just Max, a simple statement of fact. If a tiger had walked in, I'm
pretty sure she would have just said, Tiger.
“Hello, miss,” I say.
“You have something to be getting on with?”
“Er, I have a book, miss.”
“Very well then.”
And that's it. I sit down with my book—The Life of a Cuckoo, naturally
—and read in silence for ninety minutes. To be honest, it feels a lot like
being in the hospital.
I nearly chose the other option. The nuclear option. The red pill. Honestly, I
was this close. When Lindsay first suggested it, it seemed like the perfect
solution. I'd go into treatment and have people help me get better full-time.
And Mum and Dad would have a break. Perfect, right? But after I'd
finished talking to Lindsay and the other doctors, I began to wonder what
exactly happens there.
Do you get to read the books you want to read?
Do you get to go outside if you want to?
Can I take my computer and a pair of binoculars?
I googled it.
Bad idea.
I don't know what being anorexic was like before they invented the
Internet. I've only ever tried it with the Internet. I guess the upside is, you
can find people to talk to if you want to. At least, you know other people
are going through the same thing.
The trouble is, you don't really want to talk about it.
Also, the people you read about are never actually going through the
same thing. Usually, they went through it years ago and have now decided
they want to tell their story, and help others with their suffering. I know
they're trying to help, but I end up hating them. You're better. I'm not. Stop
rubbing it in my face.
Or you read horror stories. Forums full of anorexics whose main goal
seems to be to egg on one another.
What's the best laxative to use? How can I get it without a credit card?
Can I use it every day?
They're always girls, with names like Paige and Grace and Lyra. (Come
to think of it, I'm pretty sure one of them was called Ana, but maybe that
was a joke.) I kind of don't believe most of the things they say. But either
way, I don't have anything in common with them. Everything they say
makes me want to scream, That's not what anorexia feels like. That's not
how it is.
The first thing I found when I started googling residential treatment was
this blog by some girl called Jenna in Ohio, USA. There were thirteen
entries, dating back almost three years. I scrolled halfway down the page
and started reading.
June 16—Group Sessions :(
We have two group sessions every day, at 11 a.m.
and 3 p.m., and they are the WORST THING
EVER!! We all sit in a circle and listen to one
another as we talk about how treatment's going, or
at least that's what we're SUPPOSED to talk
about. All people do is complain about the food
and talk about how much they miss their
boyfriends. I never know what to say. Becca
makes stuff up. Yesterday, she told us that her
boyfriend broke up with her—which definitely isn't
true—and we all spent like 20 minutes trying to
cheer her up. She's such a bitch.
I'm pretty mad because I got my first 4 in my
Achievement Plan this week. 4 = Unsatisfactory. I
got it because one of the assistants saw me giving
pills to Becca. I tried to explain they were just
Tylenol, but she wouldn't listen. You get worse
punishments for doing stuff to other people than
doing it to yourself because you're “enabling their
disease”—which is such bullshit because it was
Becca who gave me the pills in the first place!!
In five minutes, Jenna's blog put me off residential treatment. I read this
thing in the newspaper about how once you go to prison you're screwed
because you're surrounded by criminals all the time. Residential treatment
sounds a lot like that. Maybe it depends where you end up, but I'm worried
the only thing I'd learn is how to be more anorexic.
And I really, really don't need any help with that.
“Max!”
I spin around. I'm kind of disorientated because I've stepped out of
Mrs. Braithwait's Silent Victorian Time Warp, and it takes me a moment to
get used to things like sound and color again. Stu sidles up to me with this
huge grin on his face. “Nice of you to join us.”
“Um, hey,” I mumble.
“Hey.”
I don't really know what to say next. I honestly, genuinely almost talk to
him about the weather, like I'm Bill from the hospital, the eighty-five-yearold man with a garden plot. It's been rather mild lately, hasn't it? Good for
my petunias! But at the last moment I spot his kit bag. “You have football
this morning?”
“It is my burden,” he says. Stu's kind of like Robin, in that he thinks
he's funny. The difference is, he's right slightly more often. We carry on
walking in the direction of the playground. “Hey, have you listened to the
new Parawax album yet? It's pretty sweet.”
And just like that, we're off. We're having a Normal Teenage
Conversation. It may not seem like much, but over the summer, I kind of
convinced myself that I'd never have another conversation like this again.
“Nope,” I reply. I hate Parawax.
“Wanna listen?”
“Sure.”
We spend break listening to music on Stu's tinny headphones
(apparently, he's softened his policy on personal technology). When Ram
joins us, he does exactly the same thing, i.e., totally ignores two pretty
major facts: 1) I missed the first week of school for some reason; and 2) I
look like Jack Skellington. I eat my banana and my Go Ahead! bar at 11:00
a.m., in accordance with Rule Two. I notice Ram doesn't ask me for either,
which is weird. Has he finally clocked that I'm ill? Has he realized that I
need all the food I can get? I get my answer when he whips out a slice of
takeaway pizza and a Peperami. No, Ram has not come to a new
understanding about the nature of anorexia nervosa. He's just been at his
dad's and doesn't need me.
There's no sign of you-know-who. I want to ask about her, but I don't
know how. Maybe they've cut her out because she was too much of a
weirdo. Or maybe she's cut me out.
Stu keeps changing the track. He plays thirty seconds of one song, and
then goes, Oh, wait, you've got to listen to this, and starts another one. I
have one earbud, and Ram has the other—because, when he does use
technology in public, Stu's pretty great about sharing—so it's not like he
can even hear it. But he still sings along in perfect sync.
When the bell goes, he asks me: “So, what do you think?”
“It's shit, Stu,” I reply. I grin at him. “Sorry. See you at lunch?”
He looks pretty miffed, but nods.
“Cool,” says Ram. “Max, we're in physics together for fourth period.
Catch you later.”
“Okay,” I say. I lift my rucksack onto my shoulder and head off toward
the languages building, thinking, That was the best fifteen minutes I've had
in months.
Third period is German. Our school is a specialist language college, which
means we take languages super-seriously. One of the rules is, for GCSE and
A-level, the whole class is conducted in whatever the language is: French,
Spanish, or German. You're literally not allowed to say a word of English.
If your liver bursts and you can't explain what's happened in German,
you've got to wait for the bell before anyone will call you an ambulance.
Okay, that probably isn't true. But you get the picture.
Anyway, when I walk into my new German class for the first time, I
forget about this rule. I go to the front of the class and ask, “Miss, where do
I sit?” There are like three empty seats, and one of them is mine. But I don't
know which.
It doesn't go well.
“Ah, Max. Schön dich zu sehen,” Mrs. Müller replies. Mrs. Müller isn't
actually German. Her husband is. So she's ended up with a British cliché of
a German name, the first one you'd come up with if you were trying to
name a German person. Kind of funny for a German teacher.
“Uh,” I say. “Danke?”
“Bitte fragen sie mich auf Deutsch, Max.”
“Um …”
Everyone else has already sat down. They're watching this whole thing.
So Mrs. Müller does that thing teachers do sometimes, when they decide
your stupid question is a Teaching Opportunity, and bring the entire class
into your conversation. Even if you really, really don't want that to happen.
Mrs. Müller turns to the class, and says, “Kann jemand helfen?”
I can guess that much. Max is a charity case. For God's sake, someone
please help him.
And guess whose hand shoots into the air?
Yep.
“Wo sitze … mich?”
“‘Wo sitze ich, Evie. Aber sehr gut. Max, bitte hinsetzen,” says Mrs.
Müller, pointing to the empty chair right next to Evie.
I shuffle down the classroom, trying not to notice that Evie's laughing at
me. That everyone's laughing at me. In my head, I'm reciting a new
personal motto: I want to die I want to die I want to die.
I start counting to ten. I feel like today, I'm going to need Rule Three a
lot.
Once I've sat down, I risk a sideways glance.
Evie grins. But I can't tell whether she's grinning at me or with me.
I jam my hand in my pocket and trace the corners of the plastic bag with
my fingers, to check it's still there. I don't know where I was imagining it
would've gone in the past thirty seconds exactly. Or the thirty seconds
before that. But apparently, I need to keep checking that the note is there.
I've still not opened it. I can't really explain why. Maybe it's because
it's from before everything happened, and I'm scared that if I read it, it
could suck me back into the past.
Or maybe it's because I don't want to know what it says.
I know that sounds stupid. But think about it. Right now, inside that
plastic bag, there could be a check for a million pounds.
Or a magical incantation that you say three times, under a full moon, to
cure anorexia.
Or a message from Evie, confessing her undying love.
As long as I don't know, it can be whatever I want it to be. Which
means there's hope.
Like before I knew Mum and Dad were separating.
Like the moment before you step on the scales.
In my pocket, I have a little bit of hope. And I kind of need it right now.
“Psst.”
I look across at Evie, and mouth, What?
She shrugs.
Great, thanks, Evie, I think. That clears everything up. Thanks for
telling me exactly how you feel about me in such a clear and unambiguous
way.
“Psst.”
I roll my eyes this time. I'm trying to do a worksheet I definitely don't
understand, on how you conjugate irregular verbs. In German, there's a rule
for irregular verbs, which makes zero sense. Germans are weird.
What? I mouth again.
This time, Evie holds up her notebook. There's a message written on it.
I have to peer at it, because her handwriting is so loopy. I lean forward, so
Evie gets a really close-up view of my face as it turns scarlet.
Can I have lunch with you?
I have the
28
same physics teacher as last year. Dr. Magnussen. He's
pretty much the worst teacher in the world. He always sets us tons of
homework—like, crazy amounts. Amounts we can't possibly do without
handing in other homework late. Maybe he's different when he's teaching
GCSE, but I kind of doubt it.
The first thing he says to me is, “Ah, you decided to come in this week,
Mr. Howarth.”
Gee, thanks, Dr. Magnussen. Thank you for drawing everyone's
attention to the fact that I wasn't here last week. Naturally, I don't say
anything, because I know it won't end well for me. I stroll over to the bench
Ram's sitting at—he's waving at me like an air traffic controller—and count
to ten twice on my way.
“What an ass,” Ram whispered to me as I sit down, cocking his head in
Dr. Magnussen's direction.
I laugh. “Totally.”
We didn't really talk about it at break, so I ask Ram how his holidays
were. Now that I'm also from a Broken Home, I'm kind of interested in
how it works.
Ram shakes his head. “With Mum it was the usual stuff. We went to the
beach or the hotel pool every day.”
“Every day?” I say. I'm used to going on holidays where we look at
three museums before breakfast. Garda was the most chilled-out holiday
I've ever been on. Well, the first part was, anyway.
“Yup. And, uh, you know all about Portugal …” He trails off. I'm about
to reply—Um, do I?—but before I can, he says, “Hey.”
“Huh?” I say, and then immediately realize he wasn't talking to me. I
wince.
“Hey,” Evie says, sitting down on the other side of me. “How's tricks?”
“Not too bad, Evie, not too bad,” Ram says. He slaps me on the back.
“Glad to have this idiot back.”
“Yeah,” Evie replies. “I just hope he's kept up with his physics better
than his German.”
Wait. What?
While Evie and Ram are joking around, I'm sitting there with my mouth
half open, like a goldfish watching porn. Because I have questions. For
instance, are Evie and Ram best mates now? Has she been writing him
notes like she's been writing me notes? What about Stu and Darren and Dr.
Magnussen?
And was my German really that bad?
“Right, everybody,” says Dr. Magnussen. “If you'd like to finish off
your conversations … thank you.”
Dr. Magnussen has this high, squeaky voice, like a chipmunk who's
been sucking on a balloon. He kind of looks like a chipmunk, too. He has a
beard but almost no hair on his head, which makes his face look really
round. And when he's explaining things, he holds his hands up like paws.
Seriously.
“Now, can anyone give us a quick recap on Newton's First Law of
Motion, for the benefit of those that weren't here last Thursday?” He looks
right at me as he says it. I'm wondering if he knows I wasn't here because I
was in a bloody hospital.
No one answers. You could honestly hear a ball of cotton wool fall to
the floor. Dr. Magnussen pinches the bridge of his nose.
“Anyone? You may remember I like to call it ‘the lazy law'.”
Nothing. Nada. Zilch.
“Very well, I'll pick on someone.” He looks around, like a meerkat on
watch duty, until he locks in on our bench. “Ram,” he says. “Any idea?”
“No, sir,” says Ram immediately, in a kind of sing-song voice. You can
tell he hasn't really considered the question: it's just his default response.
Like in a TV show, when a police officer asks a member of a gang question
after question, and they just say No comment every time.
But Dr. Magnussen isn't easily put off.
“Come on, Mr. Ahmed. The lazy law: The clue's in the name. What
happens to an object when no forces are acting on it?”
Ram puts his elbows on the desk and leans his head on his palms.
“Nothing?”
Dr. Magnussen sighs. “I was hoping for a little more detail, but I guess
that's basically right. Newton's First Law of Motion—everyone, listen up,
please—Newton's First Law states that, unless an object is acted on by an
unbalanced force, it will remain stationary, or continue moving at the same
speed and in the same direction if it's already in motion. Is that clear?”
Everyone murmurs a yes. It's the leastenthusiastic yes I've ever heard.
It's the kind of yes you'd get if you were on a spaceship that only had
twenty minutes' oxygen left, and you started asking people whether they'd
made their beds that morning.
“Very well then,” Dr. Magnussen says. “Please turn to page thirty-six in
your textbooks.”
I risk a glance up at Evie. She's staring straight at me.
I start scribbling a note in the back of my exercise book. I can't tell if
it's a good idea or not, so I do it quickly, before I change my mind.
Has your dad dumped Katya yet?
I push the book toward Evie. She leans over and reads it, and looks at
me, then pushes it back, and stares down at her desk.
I guess that's a no.
No prizes for guessing what Dr. Magnussen moves on to after Newton's
First Law. “The Second Law deals with unbalanced forces. If an unbalanced
force acts upon an object, that object will accelerate. And we can say three
things about that acceleration …”
He rabbits on like this for ages. I look down at my textbook and realize
he's just reading it out—but the way he says it, you'd think he came up with
Newton's Second Law himself.
“He really loves the sounds of his own voice,” Ram says under his
breath, and I have to concentrate pretty hard on stopping myself from
bursting out laughing.
Once we've read the theory, Dr. Magnussen demos it with a tennis ball
and a cricket ball. He hits them both along the front bench with a pool cue,
so we see how the tennis ball moves faster.
Ram leans over to me and whispers, “Then how come heavy stuff falls
faster?”
I know this one because I read a book about Galileo once. “It doesn't. If
you drop those two balls from the top of a skyscraper, they fall at the same
speed.”
“Bullshit,” says Ram.
That's what Galileo taught us, I think. But then I confuse myself. If
acceleration is inversely proportional to mass, shouldn't the cricket ball
drop more slowly? I whisper to Ram, “Wait, I'm not sure I've got it right.”
“Max,” booms Dr. Magnussen. I jump slightly.
“Sorry, sir, we were just—”
“Talking in the middle of my demonstration. I know. Given that you're
already behind everyone else, perhaps you'd like to pay attention?”
I count to ten.
Once Dr. Magnussen's stopped eyeballing us, Ram nudges me in the
ribs. “What's up with Evie?”
She's still staring at the desk.
So I write another note.
You okay? Don't worry. Your dad's an idiot. He'll snap out of it soon!
She glances at what I've written, then looks up at me.
“Why are you doing this?” she says out loud.
I put a finger to my mouth because I know Dr. Magnussen is looking for
any excuse to bite my head off.
What do you mean? I mouth to Evie.
“Leave me alone.”
“MR. HOWARTH,” Dr. Magnussen shouts. “Perhaps I didn't make
myself clear before?”
Ram pipes up. “We were talking about Newton's Second Law, sir,” he
stammers.
“I see,” Dr. Magnussen says. “You're getting Max up to speed, are
you?”
I give Ram this just-drop-it look, but he either doesn't get it or ignores
me. “Actually, he was helping me. He told me about Galileo.”
“Did he indeed? And Mr. Howarth knows a lot about Galileo, does he?”
Ram glances at me. His expression says, I have no idea what I'm getting
you into. “I guess,” he says. Then he adds, “He went to Italy this summer.”
I'm thinking, Now would be a good time for the ground to open up
under Lab 2B.
“Oh, well then, I'm sure he's an expert. Max, perhaps you'd like to
come up and demonstrate for us.”
“No thank you, sir,” I say quickly.
“But I insist. Class, we have a special treat today. Our resident expert in
classical mechanics is going to demonstrate Newton's Second Law.”
The trouble with Rule Three is, you have to remember to count. And
right now, I'm barely even remembering to breathe.
“Sir, I—”
“Come on, Max, up you get. We haven't got all day.”
I have to use my arms to get up from the stool, because apparently my
legs have decided to stop working. I start talking, “Well, as it says in the, uh
—”
“At the front of the class, please,” Dr. Magnussen says.
I stumble forward.
I can feel the blood draining out of my head. You know when you're in
a swimming pool, fully underwater, and you stand up quickly, and all the
water pours off of you? That's kind of how it feels. My vision starts to go
cloudy.
“Sir, I don't feel well.”
He laughs. He actually laughs out loud at me. And it's like in a gang
film: When the boss laughs, everyone else knows it's time to laugh, too.
The whole class is laughing at me.
I look back to my bench. Ram isn't laughing, at least. But Evie is.
I want to die I want to die I want to die.
“Max, we're all waiting. Get on with it.” The way he says the last line
sounds really menacing. There's this edge in his voice, like, Or else.
I lean against the front bench, because if I don't, I think I'm going to
collapse.
“I don't know, sir.”
“You don't know what?”
“I don't know anything.”
I want to cry.
I want to die.
I want to kill him.
I want to kill Evie.
I want to set fire to the whole laboratory.
“But you think you can chat all the way through my class anyway?”
“No, sir.”
“You think you can turn up a week late—”
And then I find out what happens when you forget to count to ten.
“SHUT UP, YOU BASTARD! SHUT UP SHUT UP SHUT UP!”
He doesn't flinch. This little smile spreads across his face, like, Thanks
for giving me what I wanted. “Mrs. Richards's office,” he says quietly.
“Now.”
I'm shaking. I take three big gulps of air, then walk to my bench, and
scoop up my rucksack and books, avoiding Ram's eye. Avoiding everyone's
eye. I want to leave the room calmly. I want to act like it's all over. Water
off a duck's back.
But when I get to the door, I glance backward and see Evie. And I can't
stop myself from slamming the door behind me.
Shit. Shit. SHIT.
I start counting. One, two, three, four … Then I stop myself, because
what's the point of counting now? It's too late. It's like shutting the stable
door after the horse has bolted, as Dad would say.
This was supposed to be the start of my new, healthy life. This was
supposed to be the first step toward getting better.
And it lasted three hours.
SHIT.
I know I should go straight to Mrs. Richards's office, so I can explain
what happened before she hears it from Dr. Magnussen, or from someone
else. It doesn't exactly look good to wander off when you've been sent to
the principal. Not only did he shout and swear at me, he went for a leisurely
stroll around the school when he was supposed to be on his way to your
office. But I don't have a choice. I need time to think.
Maybe the fact that I've been a straight-A student since I came to the
school will count in my favor. Or maybe they'll think, Wow, he really must
be losing it.
I walk away from the science corridor into the art department. It's
quieter here. Art is at one end of the main school building, so there isn't any
through traffic. There's a big square corridor that runs around a little
courtyard. We've had art lessons out there before, in the spring, painting the
tulips that are planted in beds on three sides. You're not really supposed to
go into the courtyard the rest of the time. But hey, it's not like things can get
any worse for me.
I push through the big glass door.
I can't stop picturing Evie. I only saw her for a second, but it's seared
into my brain. She was laughing so much, her shoulders were shaking.
Forty minutes ago, she asked me to lunch, and I pretty much started
planning our future together. Now I wish she were dead.
I wish I were dead.
Then I remember the note.
I move my hand to my pocket, slowly, gingerly, like I'm not sure it's
going to be there. But obviously it is. I pull it out of my pocket.
As soon as I see it, I know what I've got to do.
I jump up and race out of the courtyard, across the corridor, through the
double doors that lead to the recycling area. I pull the note out its plastic
bag, because even in a crisis, you've got to separate your recycling. Dad's
brought me up well. I lift the lid on the paper-only dumpster, and start
counting to ten.
One, two, three …
But then I stop myself.
I can't help it.
I open the note and start reading.
“Lovely spot you've found here, mate.” Ram sniffs, as if he were a hunter
walking through a bluebell wood in spring. A long, theatrical sniff. “You
really get that fresh dumpster-juice smell.”
“Leave me alone,” I tell him.
“I hope you're not about to throw that away,” he says.
“Why do you even care?”
He pauses, like he's really thinking about it. “One, because I'm your
mate. And, two, because I used some of Mum's best stationery to write that,
which was a big risk to my personal well-being, let me tell you.”
“Stop messing with me. I'm really not in the mood.”
I still can't bring myself to look at him.
“I'm not messing with you.”
“Yes, you are. I've had a bunch of these. They're all about Evie's
broken family and her deadbeat dad and …”
And then it hits me.
It hits me like a freight train.
It hits me like the meteorite that snuffed out the dinosaurs.
Evie didn't write those notes.
It wasn't Evie whose dad promised her a super-cool holiday, all on their
own, and then decided to bring his new girlfriend along with him. When
Evie asked me to lunch, I could barely read her handwriting. Because I'd
never seen it before.
I look up at him. “I thought the E was for Evie,” I say.
Ram laughs. “Ehtiram Ahmed,” he says, holding out his hand. “Pleased
to meet you. Not sure if you remember me, but I've been your best friend
for, um, like, ten years?”
“Shit,” I say.
“I also go by Stallone05, if you hadn't guessed. I thought you'd get the
Rambo reference.” He sniffs and pulls a face. “Okay, we have to move
away from these bins. Follow me.”
So I do. We head away from school, around the playing fields.
“If I'd known it was you …,” I start to say. Then I peter out. What
would I have done if I'd known it was him?
Ram raises a hand. “If you'd known it was me, you wouldn't have said
anything. And I would've freaked if you'd try to talk to me about it anyway.
But I thought with the notes … I wanted you to know someone had your
back, y'know? And I guess I wanted to know someone had my back, too.”
Shit.
I don't know how to respond. This whole time, I was only thinking
about myself.
Ram waves a hand, like, Forget it. “It was pretty cool watching you tear
into Dr. Magnussen, you know.”
“I'm going to get hell for it.”
“Probably,” Ram says. “But he was being a jerk. I'll back you up, and
so will Evie.”
“Yeah, right,” I say. “She thought it was hilarious.”
Ram shakes his head. “No, she didn't.”
“You don't have to pretend, Ram. I saw her. She was laughing her head
off.” He's trying to cheer me up. He probably thinks I'm going to lose it
again. “I don't even care.”
Ram punches me on the arm. If it were Robin, I definitely would have
dodged it. But I wasn't expecting this one.
“Ow.”
“Listen to me. She wasn't laughing … wait, what did you say to her?”
“What?”
“You wrote her a message, right? In class. In your exercise book. I saw
you. What did you say?”
“Oh, nothing.” He raises his arm again, fist clenched. “Okay, okay, it
was something about …” I trail off, because he's giving me this pained
look, like, Don't make me punch you again. “Something about her dad.
What's up?”
He doesn't punch me. Instead, he slaps himself on the forehead. “You
mean my dad. No wonder she is so upset.”
“She wasn't …” But then my brain catches up. Head bent over,
shoulders shaking. She wasn't laughing.
She was crying.
“Shit,” I say.
We sit down on the far side of the rugby fields, behind a little hill. You
can tell it's a good hiding place because of all the cigarette butts. It's quiet
—the hill blocks out most of the noise from the fields.
“Okay, there's something I've got to tell you. Remember after that
terrible biology exam when Evie was talking about her parents?”
“Kind of.”
“Remember anything weird?”
My brain churns for a while. “She calls her parents by their names.”
“Right. Ben and Jacob. You know why?”
I shake my head.
“Evie's in a foster home. Her mum …” He scratches his neck
uncomfortably. “Look, I probably shouldn't be the one to tell you this, but
… Evie's mum walked out on her. Years ago. And then her dad, um …”
I think back to that day at the zoo, when I asked her why she took so
many photos. You don't know what's important until later: That was her
explanation.
“Her dad's dead,” I say quietly.
Ram nods.
We sit there for ages. I try to count the cigarette butts on the grass, but I
keep losing track. I punch the ground instead. “I can't believe how much
I've screwed things up in one morning.”
“It's kind of impressive,” Ram admits. “Now, haven't you got
somewhere to be?”
“Mrs. Richards is going to skin me alive.”
“Probably. But at least you won't die alone.”
I cock an eyebrow.
“After you left, um … Evie kind of lost it with Dr. Magnussen, too.”
“You're kidding,” I say.
Ram shows me his palm. “Scout's honor. You can ask her yourself in a
sec. Hey, I guess you didn't read the second half of that yet.” He's pointing
to the note in my hand.
“Not yet,” I admit.
He grins. “If you had, you probably would've figured it out.”
“What do you mean?”
He pulls a face.
I hold his gaze for a minute. I've been trying to push Ram out of my life
all year, because I thought he'd never understand. I mean, I've been doing
that with everyone. But Ram and Stu probably got the worst of it. One
minute, they had a proper friend who wanted to hang out with them and
play video games and share food. And then, they had a ghost. Someone
who was there, but not really there. Someone who was desperate for their
attention and equally desperate to be ignored.
I turn the note over. Ram's actually laughing now.
I read it slowly, a grin spreading across my face. Then I take off my
rucksack, open it, and pull out my lunchbox.
“Max, you don't have to,” Ram says.
“It's cool,” I say. “Really.”
I've always followed the rules, since as early as I can remember. I've
never been grounded or had detention. I've never stolen anything. But
today, following the rules hasn't exactly worked out for me. I broke Rule
One earlier, when I bit off Dr. Magnussen's head instead of going to see
Miss Madeley. In fact, I'm kind of breaking Rule One right now, just by
being here. And I've already broken Rule Three about fifty times. It was a
dumb rule anyway, in my opinion, asking someone with anorexia to do
even more counting.
Well, now I'm going to make it a hat trick.
I give Ram a serious look. “Are we doing this, or what? I assume
you've got the usual?”
Ram grins, then nods. He slides his backpack off his shoulders, opens
the zip, and pulls out his lunchbox, too.
I crack mine open and pull out the little foil package. “Two ham
sandwiches,” I say.
“Two cheese sandwiches,” Ram replies, offering me his little parcel in
return. He nods. “Pleasure doing business with you.”
I nod back. “I guess I better go get my head bitten off.”
“I think you mean, you better go on your hot date with Evie.”
I laugh. “See you when I get out?”
“I'm guessing you'll know where to find us.”
I put my lunchbox away, lift the bag onto my shoulder. “See you in a
bit,” I say.
“Wait a second,” says Ram. He goes into his backpack again, and pulls
out a Kit Kat.
“I think I have a Snickers?” I say nervously. To be honest, I don't really
want to trade chocolate bars with him, too. Not because I'm going to freak
out, or hopefully not. Just because, well, Snickers are way better than Kit
Kats.
“Good for you,” he says. “But this isn't a trade. This is a gift of love.”
“Um, okay.”
“It's a well-known fact, Max, that Kit Kats are the most romantic food
in the world.”
“O-kay,” I say. I'm trying to decide if he's actually lost it.
“Split it with Evie,” he says. “She loves Kit Kats.”
For a moment, I wonder how he knows this. Then I remember how
much attention he always pays to what everyone else is having for lunch.
Ram could probably tell me the favorite chocolate bar of everyone in
Deanwater High.
I take the Kit Kat from him. “Thanks, man.”
“Don't mention it. And don't get used to it, either. I never give away
food.”
“I know. Tomorrow will be different, right?”
He snorts. “Exactly.”
Robin insisted on
29
making the spaghetti this year. That's right, Robin.
Robin. The man who has been known to eat Pot Noodles dry because he
can't be bothered boiling the kettle, and who once tried roasting a chicken
in its plastic shrink-wrap. He's now been in the kitchen, alone, for two
hours. We're all kind of nervous.
I don't know why, but spaghetti Bolognese is our traditional Christmas
Eve dish. Every year, we eat spaghetti, go and listen to the sleigh bells, and
then go to bed.
The only difference this year is, we're probably going to go to bed with
food poisoning.
Mum gets up, for the fourth time, to ask Robin if he needs any help.
“I'm fine,” he tells her, and shoos her away from the kitchen. He's said
the same thing every time—but this time, the I'm fine had a definite edge.
Less I'm actually managing remarkably well thank you, more For God's
sake, please don't come in here.
This morning, I had my session with Lindsay, my first in a month. I've
put on another two pounds, which means my BMI is now officially in the
Normal range again. Lindsay's always pretty careful about how she reacts.
She knows that, whatever my weight, I'm usually upset about it. Gained
weight? The sky is about to fall in. Lost weight? I'm going to die. Stayed
the same? What a waste of time. I feel sorry for her; she really can't win.
But today wasn't like that. Today, she could see how happy I was.
Okay, so I'm right at the bottom of Normal. It's a pretty big range. But
it still feels good. According to my official NHS chart, my weight is now no
longer a big, immediate risk to my health.
“How do you feel?” Lindsay asked me.
She's asked me that in every session we've had. And my go-to answer
has always been: fine. I feel fine.
But I'm getting better at being honest. “Scared,” I told her. “Scared to
death.”
And you know what I don't feel?
I don't feel fat.
I really thought I would. I told myself, If you don't want to die, you're
going to have to get used to feeling fat.
I mean, maybe I will at some point. But so far, so good.
I texted Evie right after my session. Just the number: my new BMI. She
replied in about eight seconds.
Cuckoo: You're kidding.
Me: Nope.
Cuckoo: OMG!
Me: Yep.
Cuckoo: THAT'S AMAZING. YOU'RE FRICKIN AMAZING, PACKHAM.
Cuckoo: P.S. Elephant juice! :D
Before you ask, yes, Evie's in my phone as Cuckoo, which definitely
sounds like some lame pet name. But the thing is, she really is a cuckoo.
Her mum abandoned her. She's kind of a loudmouth. She came out of
nowhere in spring and makes a lot of noise. Okay, she hasn't killed all her
foster-siblings yet. But I'm pretty sure it's only a matter a time.
I texted Stu and Ram, too. Stu still hasn't replied, probably because of
the whole no-phones-in-the-house rule. Also, he told us he was going to be
on a major Star Trek marathon on Christmas Eve. But Ram replied
straightaway, too: Good. Does that mean I can start stealing your food
again?
Robin comes into the lounge. He's wearing a white apron, and it honestly
looks as though he'd slaughtered a cow in it. It's like a scene from a horror
movie.
“Dinner is served,” he says.
“Whether we're ready for it or not,” Dad replies.
Robin raises the dish towel he has in his hand threateningly. “Watch it,
Pops,” he says.
Dad's been around more lately. He came for tea twice this week. He
even stays over sometimes. (Tonight, Dad and Robin are going to arm
wrestle to see who gets my old room. The loser has to sleep on the sofa
downstairs.) Don't get me wrong: Mum and Dad are definitely still off. But,
to be honest, they seem happier around each other now than they have for
years.
We go through and sit at the table. Robin's already laid out our plates
and cutlery. I asked him if we could serve ourselves. I still find eating a
portion that someone else has dished out kind of tricky.
Robin brings over a big pan of Bolognese while Mum pours us all wine.
Even me. I drink wine now.
“Wow,” I say, when Robin puts the pan down on the table. “That smells
… good.”
“Really good,” says Dad.
“You don't have to sound quite so surprised,” Robin grumbles.
“It looks lovely, Robin,” says Mum. “Thank you.”
And it is. Spag bol isn't something I've eaten a lot of lately: difficult-tomeasure portions plus loads of different ingredients plus a ton of carbs
equals an anorexic's worst nightmare. Okay, maybe I'm not the best judge.
But the sauce is nice and meaty. The pasta's got that little bit of bite it
should have. He's even made his own garlic bread, by cutting up some
baguette and rubbing garlic and herbs on it, then grilling it.
It's really, really good.
I raise an eyebrow at my brother. “Turns out you can cook, Robin. Who
knew?”
“Thanks, little bro,” Robin says. He gives me this weird look, then
reaches for his wineglass. “Now, I'd like to propose a toast.”
“To Santa Claus!” says Mum.
“To the Ghost of Christmas Past!” says Dad.
Robin looks at me and shakes his head. “Honestly, with these two
around, it's a miracle we both turned out so well.”
Mum sniggers.
“No, Mother and Father,” Robin continues, giving them both a
disappointed look. “I think Santa gets enough praise for doing one
evening's work a year, frankly. I'd like to propose a toast to the bravest
person I've ever met.”
I'm expecting Dad to chip in again, and say something like, Oh, you
mean Rudolph. But he doesn't. He's beaming at me. And then I realize they
all are: Mum, Dad, and Robin are all grinning at me like Cheshire Cats.
“Wait, what's going on?” I say.
Robin raises his glass, and Mum and Dad do the same. “You kicked this
year's ass, little bro.”
“Right, who wants to see if they can hear the sleigh bells?”
I look up at Mum. She's wearing a Santa hat, and a sweater that says I
WISH IT COULD BE CHRISTMAS EVERY DAY across it in huge letters,
and a smile as wide as Siberia. I realize the last time I saw her this happy
was last Christmas, before everything got really bad.
“Nope,” says Robin cheerily, without looking up from the Radio Times
he's been reading for twenty minutes.
“Come on, Robin,” says Mum. “It's almost midnight.” She disappears
into the hallway.
“Why do we do this, exactly?” Robin says, to no one in particular.
Dad comes up behind him and grabs the magazine, whips it away in one
smooth movement. “Tradition,” he says.
“That's not a reason.”
“How about Because your mum and dad asked you to then?”
Robin shrugs.
“Cheeky sod,” mutters Dad. He looks across at me. I'm already putting
my coat on. Another year, I might side with my brother. But not this year.
“Why can't your brother be more like you, eh?”
It hits me like a sledgehammer. I know it's a joke, but it's not a joke
Dad could have made at any other point this year. The idea of being more
like me being a good thing would've seemed too ridiculous.
“Beats me,” I say.
Robin gives me this how-could-you look.
Mum comes back into the room with Santa hats for the rest of us. And a
huge plate of mince pies.
I hate wearing hats: My hair is so fine, I end up looking like I've been
electrocuted when I wear one. But it's Christmas, right?
“Thanks, Mum,” I say.
I pull the hat on, eventually; it's so tight I'm pretty sure it's cutting off
the blood supply to my brain or something.
“Mince pie?”
She offers me the tray. And I'm about to take one—really—when Dad's
phone beeps.
“It's midnight!” Mum squeals. She puts the tray down on the coffee
table. “Come on!” she says, frantic. She unlocks the patio door, grabs Dad's
hand, and marches out into the cold.
“She's insane,” Robin mutters.
“Sultan!” I shout. I beeline toward the coffee table, but it's too late. Our
dog may not walk so fast anymore, but he still eats at a thousand mph. He's
already on his second mince pie by the time I get there—and naturally, he's
managed to slobber all over the rest.
“Whoops,” Robin says.
“Mum's gonna be pissed,” I say, hoisting the plate away from Sultan.
Unperturbed, he switches to hoovering up the crumbs. His tail thwacks the
sofa over and over.
Robin shrugs. “She's already made three batches. It's like therapy or
something for her. Personally, my cooking career is over.”
I take the plate through to the kitchen and put it down on the side. I
can't quite bring myself to throw it in the bin. I'm still not that great with
food waste. Maybe we can throw away the mincemeat—I'm pretty sure
dogs aren't supposed to eat mincemeat—and give Sultan the pastry.
I go back through to the lounge. Sultan's finished clearing up; he's now
slumped in front of the sofa, looking pretty content.
“We should go join them,” I say. “They must be freezing their asses
off.”
Robin holds up a hand, like, Wait.
“What?” I ask.
He points at the tree. Specifically, at the presents under the tree.
“When we come back in, I'm going to show you which is yours. It's
technically Christmas already, right?”
“Technically,” I agree.
He puts an arm around my shoulder and guides me toward the door. “I
think you're going to like this one, little bro.”
December 24
Dear Ana,
Lindsay told me about her eating disorder the first time I
met her. She had been bulimic for eight years. At the time
she told me, I was fourteen. I remember doing the sums in
my head. Divide 14 by 8, times 100 = 57.1. Lindsay was bulimic
for the equivalent of 60 percent of my life.
It felt like forever.
She said something else, too. Something that haunted
me. “You learn to live a normal life around your eating
disorder.” I'm probably not remembering it exactly right, but
it was along those lines.
I thought she meant that I'd never recover. I figured she
was trying to stop me getting my hopes up. “Max, sorry, but
there's no miracle cure. You'll always be this way. You just
need to deal with it.” I could barely breathe after she said it.
Scratch the 60 percent: I was going to be ill for the next 100
percent of my life.
I brought it up again this morning. And it turns out I
kind of got the wrong end of the stick.
“I'm cured. Of course I am,” she said. “What I meant was,
having a normal life is part of what fixes you. When you
have an eating disorder, you withdraw from the world. And
that makes everything worse.”
It all sort of clicked when she said that.
Lindsay was ill for 60 percent of my life so far. But for
the other 40 percent, she was okay. She was just Lindsay.
Funny how that number keeps coming up—60 percent.
Mr. Edwards told us that humans are 60 percent water, and
afterward, I was obsessed with the fact. In my head, human
beings became these giant wet amoebas, rolling around the
surface of the globe.
But I was forgetting the other 40 percent. The 40
percent of me that isn't water. The part that makes me,
me.
It's just like that soup, the one in the story that isn't
really made from a stone. There's no magic to it. A stone is
just a stone. Water is just water. To make a human, you
need carbohydrates and fats and proteins and vitamins. You
need roast potatoes. You need Mars bars. You need prawn
crackers and cheese sandwiches and Kit Kats. And where do
they come from?
I always thought the moral of that story was that
people are gullible. But this year—the year I didn't eat—it's
changed my mind. The moral of the story is that, if you ask
for help, people will help you. Not definitely. Not always. But
most of the time.
And here's the important bit. The bit I got really, really
wrong. Those people who are trying to help you? Those
people who end up saving your life?
They don't need to understand everything.
No one will ever 100 percent understand you. They
probably won't even 40 percent understand you. I know
that's what teenagers say in TV shows, and maybe
sometimes in real life, too. “You don't understand me!” Well,
anorexics are kind of like ultra-teenagers, I guess. We're
extra-super-double sure that no one understands us. Not
even, like, Kurt Cobain. And you know what? I think we're
right. As Robin puts it, being a teenager blows, and the older
you get, the more you forget how much it blows.
But the thing is, it doesn't matter. Someone doesn't
need to understand you to save your life. They just need to
care.
It can be your biology teacher or your ex-bulimic
psychologist. Your mum, your dad, your brother, or your dog.
It can be a PE teacher you always thought hated you or a girl
you want to talk to.
It can be a mysterious stranger who leaves you
anonymous notes.
Or it can be your best friend.
I'm not sure why I'm telling you this, Ana. We've already
established you don't exist. Actually, that's a good point. I'm
talking to myself again. I'm gonna text Ram instead. He's
probably already opened his presents by now.